====================================
101.0 One Hundred and One Dalmatians
====================================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 101.0,
AKA "One Hundred and One Dalmatians", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 101.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/101.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The ``xunit`` (AKA ``junit``) result file now contains the class
  name and better error information for test cases.

* The ``xunit`` and ``json`` result files now contain the test variant
  information.

* The documentation now uses proper terminology everywhere, matching
  the nrunner architecture.

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu` introduced a utility to check if a given CPU
  is hotpluggable.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.network` introduced
  :func:`avocado.utils.network.hosts.Host.validate_mac_addr` which
  checks if a given MAC address is valid.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.network` now adds a missing network mask prefix
  when creating static configurations.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.disk` introduced
  :func:`avocado.utils.disk.get_disks_by_id` which returns all disks by
  device ids.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.archive` added support for Zstandard
  uncompression.

Bug Fixes
=========

* Test runners written in Python (using Python modules as an
  entrypoint) will now be found by the podman spawner.

* A runnable's variant (and thus parameters) information was not being
  respected when using the Job API.

Internal Changes
================

* A number of lint checks were added, with the bump of Pylint to
  version 2.15.10.

* Besides the main Avocado egg, all of the optional plugins (but part
  of the Avocado code repository), now build eggs on the CI.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/100.0...101.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/27?closed=1>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055254/>`_.
