=====================
104.0 - Restore Point
=====================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 104.0,
AKA "Restore Point", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 104.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/104.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The minimal Python version requirement now is 3.8. Python 3.7 and
  earlier are not tested nor supported starting with this release.
* The result.json test attributes related to time has been renamed in version 104.0
  to correspond to `job.result.tests` in Job API. The Difference between new and old::

        time_start = start
        actual_time_start = actual_start
        time_end = end
        actual_time_end = actual_end
        time_elapsed = time

* The parsing of avocado configuration files has been improved to
  show better error messages during parsing error.
* Unused and legacy ``simpletest.*`` settings have been removed
  from avocado as leftover of legacy runner.

Utility Modules
===============

* :func:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface.get_device_IPI_name`,
  got a fix for "ERROR: 'CmdResult' object has no attribute 'decode'".
* :func:`avocado.utils.data_structures.comma_separated_ranges_to_list` has been optimized.
* :mod:`avocado.utils.podman` got a synchronous version of podman utilities.

Bug Fixes
=========

* TaskStatusService got error handling for lost connection and
  ``avocado-runner-*`` won’t crash any more when the status server socket is closed.

Internal Changes
================

* The ``contrib/scripts/avocado-fetch-eggs.py`` got an update for
  egg handling related to post LTS changes.
* Added CodeQL workflow for GitHub code scanning in Avocado repo.
* The ``tmpfile.mktemp`` has been changed to ``tmpdir`` because of security reasons.
* CI: fix for testing of different OS images with egg and version tasks.
* Unused and legacy ``runner queue`` has been removed from :class:`avocado.Test`.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/103.0...104.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/30>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9362492/>`_.
