===================
105.0 - Poor Things
===================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 105.0,
AKA "Poor Things", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 105.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/105.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* A couple of new resolvers were introduced: one that can reads from
  standard ``JSON`` "runnable recipe" files, and one that can read
  from a ``JSON`` file containing multiple occurrences of the
  previously mentioned runnable recipes.  This allows users to
  "configure" in ``JSON`` what Avocado is going to resolve, and if
  it's the case, run as a test.

* Users can now define common dependency for each test inside job or
  with Job API inside suite.  With this feature, it should be easier
  to create jobs with tests which have common dependencies.

* More control over the environment variables in ``exec-test`` was
  introduced. It's now possible to disable one environment variable or
  clear the whole environment during the test runtime so it won't be
  available to the underlying executable.

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu`: added support for getting physical cores
  from ``lscpu``

* :mod:`avocado.utils.git`: added support for checking out submodules

* :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu`: utility update for AMD x86_64 arch to
  return family details, model number for x86_64 and Zen information

* :mod:`avocado.utils.disk`: improved the exception handling

* :mod:`avocado.utils.astring`: optimized ``bitlist_to_string()`` using
  ``bytearray``

Bug Fixes
=========

* Runnables no longer ignore the configuration passed from recipes

* Runnable (and Task) dependencies could deadlock and fail to complete
  if they were duplicates.  Duplicates are now removed before
  attempting to fulfill them.

Internal Changes
================

* Added a module boundary check for importing avocado plugins inside
  avocado core.

* Some selftests had shebangs and ``main()`` calls removed

* The ``JSON`` based runnable recipe now receives schema based
  validation when the supporting library is available, or a simplified
  check when it's not.

* The GitHub actions used on the various workflows were all updated to
  the latest available versions.

* The code style is slightly changed with the update to black version 24.3.0

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/104.0...105.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/31>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt14230458/>`_.
