==================
106.0 - Taking Off
==================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 106.0,
AKA "Taking Off", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 106.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/106.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The usage of Coverage.py (the de-facto Python tool for for test
  coverage) with Avocado received a number of improvements such as
  support for ``python-unittest`` tests in addition to
  ``avocado-instrumented`` tests.

* When listing tests with ``avocado -V list``, the resolver that
  handled the reference to test resolution is now shown.  The reason
  is that with the introduction of resolvers such as
  ``runnable-recipe`` and ``runnables-recipe`` the resolver may not be
  the same as the test type.

* Job log files can now use a memory buffer to reduce I/O pressure
  when there's much log activity.  Users can set the
  ``job.run.logging_buffer_size`` with the desired buffer size.

Utility Modules
===============

* :func:`avocado.utils.disk.get_io_scheduler_list`: new utility
  function that returns the I/O scheduler available for the I/O
  device.

* :func:`avocado.utils.disk.get_io_scheduler`: new utility function
  that returns the I/O scheduler which is currently set for a device.

Bug Fixes
=========

* The resolver could fail to check file permissions on systems such as
  macOS due to limitations in :func:`os.access`.  A more robust check
  is now used based on :func:`os.stat`.

* A hardcoded reference and check for the "nrunner" runner plugin was
  removed.

* A regression that was adding the entire Avocado configuration to
  every runnable was fixed.

* The suite configuration is now applied to all runnables at suite
  creation time, instead of at just before the test execution time
  with the ``avocado run`` command/plugin.

* The current configuration of a runnable is used to set its
  identifier.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/105.0...106.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/32>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0067820/>`_.
