=====================
107.0 - The Godfather
=====================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 107.0,
AKA "The Godfather", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 107.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/107.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The Gmail Plugin for Avocado, a new optional plugin, allows results
  to be sent to any email. The Origin email though at this time has to
  come from a google account due to using App Passwords.

* Added support for TAP14 format. The main differences between TAP13
  and TAP14 important for the TAP runner are support for child tests as
  4-space indented TAP streams, with a trailing test point and leading
  comment line and escaping of ``\`` and ``#`` characters.

* There's now a way how to explicitly specify runnable identifier
  through Job API or runnable recipe. If the ``identifier`` key is
  provided, it will be used, and if not, it will be generated based on
  the ``runner.identifier_format`` config variable (which is the
  previous behavior).

* When a configuration key requires a list, and a string is given,
  the error message is now much more descriptive.

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.archive` make probe function for zstd public

* :mod:`avocado.utils.kernel` received a fix for compatibility issue
  with ``setuptools`` >= 70.

* New function :func:`avocado.utils.linux.is_os_secureboot_enabled`

Bug Fixes
=========

* It's now possible for a runnable configuration and the suite and
  default configuration to coexist with the correct behavior.
  In short, if the suite has a configuration, it will become the new
  default configuration for a runnable, while its own configuration
  will not be touched.

Internal changes
================

* Update to pylint 3.0.0

* Refactor and reorganization of nrunner unittests

* Fixes to the deployment test

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/106.0...107.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/33>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0068646/>`_.
