========================
108.0 - Oppenheimer
========================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 108.0,
AKA "Oppenheimer", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 108.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/108.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* Avocado introduces new way how to resolve test references with
  `exec-runnables-recipe`. It allows a user to point to a file that
  will be executed, and that is expected to generate (on its ``STDOUT``)
  content compatible with the Runnable recipe format. More info
  about this new feature can be found in `documentation
  <https://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/writer/chapters/recipes.html#using-dynamically-generated-recipes>`_

* Documentation about avocado-instrumented test lifecycle has been `improved
  <https://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/reference/chapters/avocado_instrumented.html>`_

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces` got RHEL10 support.

* :func:`avocado.utils.nvme.get_block_size` has been fix to not raise
  ``non iterable error``.

Bug Fixes
=========

* Tap runner skipping test failures has been fixed. Now the test
  failures will be always visible.

* Fail reason for interruptions during setUp and tearDown has been fixed.

Internal changes
================

* Avocado's static-checks has been moved to standalone repository and are
  provided via submodule. If you are checking out a fresh clone of Avocado,
  the instructions on how to proceed are already documented `here.
  <https://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/contributor/chapters/how.html#git-workflow>`_
  But if you already have a clone, then *now*, you'd also need to run::

    git submodule update --init --recursive

* Functional tests for Debian has been added to test :mod:`avocado.utils.disto`

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/107.0...108.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/34>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt15398776/>`_.
