========================
109.0 - 9
========================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 109.0,
AKA "9", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 109.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/109.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* New test dependency for installing pip packages. The new PIP runner
  has been introduced to install pip packages before the test execution
  in the test environment. More info about this new feature can be found
  in `documentation <https://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/user/chapters/dependencies.html#Pip>`_

* VMimage get --debug option has been added to show more information
  about possible failures during image download.

* The message given by the avocado-instrumented and python-unittest
  resolvers, resolvers that share a lot of code and require Python
  files has been improved. Now it informs about missing Python suffix `.py`
  instead of missing file.

* The installation of the avocado-framework via Fedora (and EPEL)
  modules has been removed. More info in updated `installation guide <https://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/user/chapters/installing.html>`_

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.kernel` kernel version parsing removes dependency
  to packaging module and uses its own implementation based on regex matching.

Bug Fixes
=========

* `avocado jobs` command has been fixed to not crash on corrupted data.

* `avocado list --filter-by-tags` command has been fixed to filter tests
  based on provided tags.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage` has been updated to match
  the available Fedora image file names for the s390x architecture. This resolves
  the issue where the vmimage utility could not download the correct image due to
  a pattern mismatch.

Internal changes
================

* HTML plugin has new dependency 'markupsafe<3.0.0' to keep
  compatibility with setuptools on RHEL9.

* resultsdb plugin has new dependency `urllib3<2.3.0; python_version < '3.9'`
  to ensure compatibility with Python 3.8.

* Test coverage testing has been moved from codeclimate to codecov.

* New lint warnings has been added to static-checks and code refactored.

* MacOS has been updated from 12 to 14 in CI 

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/108.0...109.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/35>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0472033/>`_.
