============================
110.0 - The Harder They Come
============================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 110.0,
AKA "The Harder They Come", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 110.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/110.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* Support for Virtual Machine images (A.K.A. as vmimages) to be used
  test as dependencies. The new ``vmimage`` runner has been introduced
  to download/prepare vmimages before the test execution in the test
  environment. More info about this new feature can be found
  in the :ref:`documentation <dependency-vmimage>`.

* The HTML report can now filter results based on negative conditions.
  It's possible now to ask it to show "all tests that did not pass"
  (regardless of being an error, failure, etc) with a ``!PASS`` filter
  condition.

* Python 3.13 is now fully tested and supported.

* Code coverage (``coverage.py``) support is improved with code that
  runs during the test load now being accounted as covered.

Utility Modules
===============

* A large amount of lint and style changes were applied to the utility
  modules, in anticipation for migration to aautils.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.network` now supports SLES 16 in combination
  with NetworkManager.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage` and :mod:`avocado.utils.cloudinit`
  received major code coverage improvements, also in anticipation for
  migration to aautils.

Bug Fixes
=========

* Because of the timeout handling mechanism, some tests could end with
  false positive statuses.  The timeout handling mechanism is now more
  robust, and that situation is now resolved.

Internal changes
================

* The runners on CI were updated to run a more recent and standard
  default distro (``ubuntu-22.04``) and the Fedora images used are now
  based on Fedora 40.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/109.0...110.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/36>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070155/>`_.
