========================
111.0 - Iron Man
========================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 111.0,
AKA "Iron Man", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 111.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/111.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The installation of Avocado from distribution's packages, changed
  when compared to the previous version due to changes in repositories
  and support for "package modules" in some distributions.  Please
  refer to the installation guide instructions
  (:ref:`installing-from-packages`) for updated instructions

* New TMT plugin for Avocado is now available. This plugin allows
  Avocado to generate results in a format for TMT (Test Management Tool).

* ``avocado plugins`` command now supports the ``--capabilities`` option to print
  capabilities of avocado spawners.

Utility Modules
===============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.archive` supports detection and extraction of
  files without proper extension.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.archive` got support for BZIP2 files.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.linux` now supports enabling statistics of the Linux
  scheduler. by `is_sched_schedstats_enabled` and `enable_sched_schedstats` methods.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu.lscpu` got socets and threads information.

Bug Fixes
=========

* :mod:`avocado.utils.software_manager.backends.zypper` was fixed to
  use the correct commands for removing packages.

* HTML plugin layout resizing was fixed.

* Previously, the filename API in :mod:`avocado.core.test` returned a
  relative path in Python ≤3.9 and an absolute path in Python ≥3.10,
  leading to inconsistency. The behavior has been standardized to
  always return an absolute path, ensuring consistency across Python versions.

Internal changes
================

* The code coverage was increased for :mod:`avocado.utils.aurl`.

* The setuptools version was freezed ``<80`` version to keep compatibility
  with avocado's `setup.py develop` command.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/110.0...111.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/37>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0371746>`_.
