=================
113.0 - Apollo 13
=================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 113.0,
AKA "Apollo 13", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 113.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/113.0/>`_

Related Avocado Projects News
=============================

The Avocado framework is a project consisting of multiple
repositories.  Notably, `Avocado-VT
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado-vt>`_, `aexpect
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/aexpect>`_ and the newer `AAutils
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/autils>`_.

Avocado-VT
----------

If you're an Avocado-VT user, or are interested in having tests
running across multiple machines, please refer to the documentation of
the newly introduced `Multi-Host Testing
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado-vt/blob/master/docs/source/MultiHostTesting.rst>`_.

AAutils
-------

AAutils has released `version 3.0
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/aautils/releases/tag/3.0>`_
(check out also the `PyPI release
<https://pypi.org/project/aautils/3.0/>`_), containing a large number
of new utilities, migrated from Avocado itself.  Please refer to `the
current list of utilities
<https://avocado-framework.github.io/aautils.html>`_.


Bug Fixes
=========

* The ``job.output.loglevel`` configuration option was not being
  respected for external loggers outside of the ``avocado`` logging
  namespace.

* Fixed an issue in :mod:`avocado.utils.process.can_sudo` where the
  wrong type of return of :func:`avocado.utils.process.system_output`
  was assumed.

Utility Modules
===============

* The following modules received improvements like docstrings and
  better test coverage, preparing them for being migrated to AAUtils:

 * :mod:`avocado.utils.astring`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.process`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.script`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.wait`

* Added deprecation notice to the following modules (it means they
  will be removed after the next LTS release):

 * :mod:`avocado.utils.astring`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.gdb`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.network.ports`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.output`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.path`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.process`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.script`
 * :mod:`avocado.utils.wait`

* :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu` now has a broadened AMD Zen5 detection to
  recognize additional processor model ranges, improving
  identification of more CPU variants.

* Fixed a resource leak in :meth:`avocado.utils.sysinfo.Daemon.run` in
  module :mod:`avocado.utils.sysinfo`.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.partition` now provides symmetry when it comes
  to allowing users to specify the mount point in both the mount and
  unmount operations.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.linux_modules` now also supports
  ``/lib/modules/$KERNEL_VERSION/build/.config`` paths as a location
  for the kernel configuration as found in some systems.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.multipath` received stability improvements in
  :func:`avocado.utils.multipath.is_failed` and
  :func:`avocado.utils.multipath.is_reinstated`, preventing errors
  when the status path is not properly obtained.

Internal changes
================

* Updated the format of license to match SPDX in the RPM packages.

* Improved reliability of functional nrunner test
  ``test_task_status_service_lost``, which produced false positives
  due to timing issues.

* Improved reliability of time sensitive unit tests for
  :mod:`avocado.utils.wait` by relaxing the time tolerances and
  broadening assertion ranges.

* Improved reliability of basic functional tests by matching against
  the presence of output messages, instead of an exact match, given
  that some platforms will output deprecation and other similar
  warnings.

* The pre-release deployment check was updated to use Fedora 42,
  matching the COPR repository configuration.

Additional information
======================

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/112.0...113.0>`_.

For more information on the actual issues addressed, please check out
the `milestone information
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/milestone/39>`_.

For more information on the release codename, please refer to `IMDb
<https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112384/>`_.
