=====================================================
75.1 Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet (minor release)
=====================================================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 75.1,
AKA "Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 75.1
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/75.1/>`_

Changes from 75.0 to 75.1
=========================

* The file used as the project description, ``README.rst`` was
  slightly changed to only contain reStructuredText content, and be
  accepted into the PyPI repository.

* The missing 75.0 release notes document was added.

* A missing slash from the readthedocs.org badge URL was added.

75.0 Release Changes
====================

The following are the original changes part of the 75.0 release.

Users/Test Writers
------------------

* The very first blueprint was approved (and committed) to Avocado.
  It's about a "Configuration by convention" proposal, which will
  positively impact users deploying and using Avocado, and will
  end up making the Job API have a much better usability.

* Warnings for the deprecation of some options, as determined by the
  design decisions on the "Configuration by convention" blueprint have
  been added to the command line tool.  Users should pay attention to
  not rely on the content on ``STDERR``, as it may contain those
  warnings.

* The ``jsonresult`` plugin, that generated a JSON representation of
  the job results, added ``warn`` and ``interrupt`` fields containing
  counters for the tests that ended with WARN and INTERRUPTED status,
  respectively.

* The still experimental "N(ext) Runner" has introduced an initial
  integration with the Avocado Job.  Users running ``avocado plugins``
  will see a new entry under "Plugins that run test suites on a job
  (runners)".  The only way to activate this runner right now is to
  run a custom job such as the one in ``examples/job/nrunner.py``.

Bug Fixes
---------

* The YAML Loader did not behave correctly when a ``None`` reference
  was given to it.  It would previously try to open a file named
  ``None``.

Utility APIs
------------

* A previously deprecated function called ``thin_lv_created`` was removed
  from the :mod:`avocado.utils.lv_utils` module.

* :func:`avocado.utils.configure_network.is_interface_link_up` is a
  new utility function that returns, quite obviously, whether an
  interface link is up.

Internal Changes
----------------

* Inspektor was replaced with a PyLint for the lint checks due to parallel
  execution errors that were plaguing CI, mostly on non-x86 architectures.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.asset` received a number of refactors, in
  preparation for some major changes expected for the next releases.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.cloudinit` selftest now queries the
  allocated port from the created socket itself, which removes a race
  condition that existed previously and caused intermittent test
  failures.

* A test for the sysinfo content on the HTML report was added,
  removing the need for the manual test on the release test plan.

* The deployment selftests have been reorganized, and now are based
  on Ansible roles (and other best practices).

* The handling of a "Job results directory" resolution, based either
  on its ID (partial or complete) or path has been improved, and has
  internally been moved from the :mod:`avocado.core.jobdata` to
  :mod:`avocado.core.data_dir`.

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/74.0...75.0>`_.
