===================
92.0 Monsters, Inc.
===================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 92.0,
AKA "Monsters, Inc.", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 92.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/92.0/>`_

Important Announcement
======================

On the previous version (91.0), Avocado has switched the default
runner, from the implementation most people currently use (internally
simply called ``runner``), to the newer architecture and
implementation called ``nrunner``).

**Users migrating from Avocado 90.0 or earlier versions will be
impacted by this change and should act accordingly.**

To keep using the current (soon to be legacy) runner, you **must** set
the ``--test-runner=runner`` command line option (or the equivalent
``test_runner`` configuration option, under section ``[run]``).

Known issues are being tracked on our GitHub project page, with the
``nrunner`` tag, and new issue reports are appreciated.

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The Human UI plugin can now be configured to omit certain statuses
  from being show in a new line.  This can be used, for instance, to
  prevent the ``STARTED`` lines to be shown, showing only the final
  test result.

* The nrunner ``exec`` runnable kind does not exist anymore, and its
  functionality was consolidated into the ``exec-test``.

* Executing Python's unittest that are skipped are now always shown as
  having status ``SKIP``, instead of the previous ``CANCEL``.

* Avocado will no longer incorporate log messages coming from any
  logger (including the "root logger") into the test's and job's log
  files.  Only loggers that under the ``avocado.`` namespace will be
  included.  Users are encouraged to continue to follow the pattern::

    self.log.info("message goes here")

  When logging from a test.  When logging from somewhere else, the
  following pattern is advised (replace ``my.namespace``
  accordingly)::

    import logging
    LOG = logging.getLogger('avocado.my.namespace')
    LOG.info('your message')

* Python 3.10 is now fully supported.

* The reason for fail/error/skip tests in Python unittest are now
  given on the various test result formats (including on the UI).

Bug Fixes
=========

* Properties, that is, methods decorated with ``@property`` are no
  longer seen as tests.

* If a path to a Python unittest file contained dots, the conversion
  to a unittest "dotted name" would fail.

* Tests on classes that inherit from one marked with ``:avocado:
  disable`` were not being detected.

Utility APIs
============

* A specific exception, and thus a clearer error message, is now used
  when a command with an empty string is given to
  :func:`avocado.utils.process.run`.

Misc Changes
============

* Added example jobs for ``exec-test`` runnables, and for YAML to Mux.

* The test logs on the nrunner generated ``debug.log`` file are now
  prefixed with ``[stdlog]`` instead of ``[debug]`` to avoid confusion
  with the log level of same name.

* Added setuptools entrypoints for all nrunner implementations under
  ``avocado.plugins.runnable.runner``.

* The Podman spawner now checks for the existence of the ``podman``
  binary earlier.

* Misc documentation improvements.

Internal Changes
================

* CI deployment checks with different installation methods (sources)
  were added.

* The ``--disble-plugin-check`` argument to ``selftests/check.py`` now
  properly accepts multiple plugin names.

* Templates for GitHub issues for bugs and feature requests were
  added.

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/91.0...92.0>`_.
