====================
93.0 The Book of Eli
====================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 93.0,
AKA "The Book of Eli", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 93.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/93.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The ``dict_variants`` plugin now allows the configuration of the
  keys that will determine the variant ID.

* The legacy runner (``--test-runner=runner``) is being dismantled.
  In this release, the following features have removed:

  1. The ``PYTHON_UNITTEST`` test type

  2. The ``--external-runner`` feature and its underlying test type.

  3. The ``ROBOT`` test type

  4. The ``GOLANG`` test type

* When using the Job API, test suites can be enabled or disabled.
  Having a disabled test suite means it won't be executed.  This eases
  the creation of custom jobs where the user can choose to run a
  subset of suites.

Bug Fixes
=========

* The :mod:`avocado.core.job` code was using the root logger, instead
  of the logger at the ``avocado`` namespace.

* The automatic status server was very prone to failures due to
  ``AF_UNIX``'s limitation on the length of paths, because it was
  created inside a job's result directory.  Now it's created on the
  base system temporary directory, which makes it very hard to exceed
  the path length limit.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage` library received the following
  improvements:

  1. Ubuntu's provider now properly handles the version number when it
     compares versions with trailing zeroes.

  2. Ubuntu and OpenSUSE providers can now fetch the best (latest)
     version available when no version is given.

  3. OpenSUSE provider will now use OpenStack images starting from
     version 15.3, due to the other images having been discontinued.

* The ``variants.json`` file, saved at the ``jobdata`` directory
  inside a job's result directory, now takes into consideration the
  possible multiple suites in a job.  The files are now named after
  named with a numeric suffix and, if a name was given to the suite, a
  name suffix as well.

* The serialization of the job configuration file, also saved in the
  ``jobdata`` directory, has been updated to support ``set`` data
  types.

* ``avocado replay`` executions with a ``--show`` (which takes a set
  of builtin loggers) now work properly due to the previous fix.

* Various fixes to the ``runnable-run`` interface behavior of all
  shipped runners (detected as part of an improvement in functional
  test coverage).

* When using the Job API, some code paths would still resort to using
  the legacy runner.

* ``nrunner`` based jobs (the default) can now run from Python egg
  based deployments (meaning zero installation steps are required).

* The ``resultsdb`` plugin is now pinned to a known working version
  due to a broken release.

* Test parameters given with the command line argument ``-p`` are now
  internally converted into variants values.  This fixes the issue
  with those parameters not being displayed in the ``results.html``
  files.

Utility APIs
============

* The new method
  `avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface.is_bond` that
  allows users to check if a given interface is a bonding device.

Misc Changes
============

* A few portability improvements for macOS systems.

* Misc documentation improvements.

Internal Changes
================

* The RPM packages can now be built without the execution of tests.

* The spawner plugin interface now define two different types of
  implementations, with the new one being a spawner that is capable of
  deploying itself to the environments that will run the tasks.

* Avocado is now also being tested under Python 3.11.

* Various CI improvements.

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/92.0...93.0>`_.
