================
94.0 Gran Torino
================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 94.0,
AKA "Gran Torino", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 94.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/94.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* The Podman Spawner now deploys Avocado inside a container using
  Python eggs.  This is a significant change from previous versions in
  the sense that all test types supported by Avocado's ``nrunner``
  architecture in the default installation are now supported on a
  container (this includes ``avocado-instrumented``, ``tap``, etc).

* A results plugin for `Beaker <https://beaker-project.org>`_ is
  now available and works out of the box without any manual
  configuration needed.

* The ``AVOCADO_VERSION`` and ``AVOCADO_TEST_WORKDIR`` are now
  available to ``exec-test`` tests run under the ``nrunner``
  architecture.

* ``nrunner`` task identifiers can now be configured as a format
  string that utilizes the attributes of the runnable.  This allows
  users to define how test results will be named and presented.

* The ``--output-check-record`` has been dropped for the legacy
  runner.  A similar feature is planned to be added to the ``nrunner``
  architecture.

Bug Fixes
=========

* Objects that could not be serialized as JSON were causing crashes
  during job runs.

Utility APIs
============

* :mod:`avocado.utils.network` removed deprecated modules and methods.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage` now uses https://cloud.debian.org for
  obtaining Debian Cloud images.

Misc Changes
============

* A Blue Print for a new architecture responsible for handling the
  tasks dependencies has been approved

* More work towards the elimination of root logger usage

Internal Changes
================

* Spanwers now better cooperate with runners with regards to the
  output directory, avoiding duplicate directories and unnecessary
  data copies.

* CodeCoverage CI jobs will run only once (on Python 3.10)

* The ``selftests/check.py`` script now allows for the inclusion
  (``--select``) or exclusion (``--skip``) of major test groups to be
  run

* The import style used throughout Avocado has switched from relative
  to absolute imports

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/93.0...94.0>`_.
