==========================
95.0 PAW Patrol: The Movie
==========================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 94.0,
AKA "PAW Patrol: The Movie", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 95.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/95.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* A large part of the legacy runner has been removed.  The
  ``--loader`` options to ``avocado list``, for instance, is longer
  available.  The ``nrunner`` architecture and runner implementation
  has been the default one since version 91.0, and the remaining parts
  of the legacy runner will be removed soon.

* A script that provides the features of the legacy
  ``--external-runner`` feature has been added.  It's built on the Job
  API and ``nrunner`` architecture.

* Test writers can now access a test's status while the ``tearDown``
  method is being run.

* Result plugins such as ``json`` and ``xunit`` now contain more accurate
  values reflecting Avocado's concepts of a test's ID and name.

* Support was added for ``Coverage.py`` when running
  ``avocado-instrumented`` tests (currently limited to the
  ``ProcessSpawner``).

* By setting the ``spawner.podman.avocado_spawner_egg`` configuration
  users can now control the exact Avocado package that will be
  automatically deployed within Podman containers.

Bug Fixes
=========

* A default value was added to the Spawner's attribute that tracks the
  job's output directory, avoiding ``NoneType`` errors when it's not
  explicitly set.

* A crash when using the Podman spawner, after changes to the output
  dir handling, has fixed.

Misc Changes
============

* ``RuntimeTask`` instances are now comparable, and should now be
  unique when representing requirements, preventing having duplicates.

* The order of the ``RuntimeTask`` are now defined in a dependency
  graph, in accordance with BluePrint 004.

Internal Changes
================

* ``setup.py test`` now returns a non-zero error code when failures
  occur.

* RHEL 9 Beta has been added to some CI checks, and Ubuntu has been
  updated from 18.04 to 21.10.

* Pylint was updated to 2.12.2, along with many changes to conform to
  the checks performed by that version.

* Many parts of Avocado, including most "optional plugins", are now
  PEP420 compliant.

* Improvements to the contributor guide.

* CI checks running on Cirrus-CI have been moved to GitHub Actions.

* Packit builds have been added for CentOS Stream 8 and 9.

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/94.0...95.0>`_.
