=================
96.0 Nueve reinas
=================

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 96.0,
AKA "Nueve reinas", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 96.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/96.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* Plugins can now have a builtin priority in relation to other plugins
  of the same type that will affect its :ref:`execution order
  <plugins_execution_order>`.  This is in addition to the configurable
  ``plugins.$type.order`` settings.

* Avocado will now print a more descriptive list of tests that
  finished with a particular status at the end of the job (``FAIL``
  and ``ERROR`` by default).

Bug Fixes
=========

* Python logging streams other than the ones in the ``avocado.*``
  namespace will now be saved to the ``debug.log`` files when set with
  ``--store-logging-stream`` option.

Utility APIs
============

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.cloudinit` now allows for a finer grained
  usage of the functionality in
  :class:`avocado.utils.cloudinit.PhoneHomeServer`.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.network.ports` fixed some wrong premises
  regarding the availability of open ports for different protocols
  (such as a free TCP versus a free UDP port).

Internal Changes
================

* Modernization of Python code with a switch to f-strings.

* A :class:`avocado.core.nrunner.Task`'s set of requirements are now
  *called *dependencies** instead.

* The dependencies of a :class:`avocado.core.nrunner.Task` are now
  tracked on the more suitable
  :class:`avocado.core.task.runtime.RuntimeTask`.

* SRPMs for packit builds are now built in COPR.

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/95.0...96.0>`_.
