=============
97.0 Dopesick
=============

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado 97.0,
AKA "Dopesick", is now available!

Release documentation: `Avocado 97.0
<http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/97.0/>`_

Users/Test Writers
==================

* Test results files (in a job's result directory) can now be accessed
  by their result status.  For instance, assuming the latest job
  results are stored in ``~/avocado/job-results/latest`` (the default
  location), users can find the results for tests that ended in ``FAIL``
  at ``~/avocado/job-results/latest/test-results/by-status/FAIL``.

* The legacy runner plugin has been completely removed.  This was in
  the making since version 92.0 (LTS), with features being removed
  since then, but now the ``runner`` plugin (and thus the
  ``--test-runner=runner`` option) can no longer be used.

* Sysinfo collection "per-test" command line options have been
  removed, given that it was knowingly not behaving properly.  It's
  expected that it will be restored once GitHub issue 3877 is
  finalized.

* The ``--failfast`` feature now acts on any "not OK" result
  (currently ``ERROR``, ``FAIL`` and ``INTERRUPTED``).  Previously, it
  would only act (that is, abort the job) upon a ``FAIL`` test result.

Bug Fixes
=========

* A condition that would favor the configuration given to the job,
  instead of the more specific configuration given to the suite, was
  fixed.

* A condition in which the ``PYTHONPATH`` with egg-related path
  information would not be used when spawning tasks was fixed.

* Tests of type ``exec-test`` with a URI pointing to a file on the
  current working directory (that is, without an absolute directory
  prefix or a directory component to it) were not properly executed
  ("No such file or directory" was given).  This is now fixed.

* A condition that could crash Avocado when a suite name wasn't a
  filesystem safe name has been fixed.

Internal Changes
================

* A large part of nrunner was, since its inception, implemented as a
  standalone module (``avocado/core/nrunner.py``) that depended on
  nothing but Python itself.  The reason behind this characteristic is
  that deployment was extremely simple on environments such as
  containers or other minimalist environments, but it also imposed
  some obvious limitations.  With the deployment strategy recently
  having switched to Python eggs, this is no longer necessary.  Thus,
  ``avocado/core/nrunner.py`` has been split into finer grained, and
  much more Pythonic modules.

* The remaining instances of legacy string formatting have been
  converted to f-strings.

* A much more comprehensive "interface" tests for runners was added,
  including the introduction of a JSON Schema based mechanism.
  Coverage was also introduced for commands such as
  ``runnable-run-recipe``, ``task-run`` and ``task-run-recipe``.

* Runners will now be called with nothing but the configuration they
  mean to use.  Before this, all of the Avocado settings (around 170
  of them) where given to the runners through the ``-c`` command line
  option.  This resulted in runner's command lines and recipe files
  that were very hard to type and/or understand.  Runners now have to
  declare the specific Avocado settings that they intend to use.

* Packit builds on CI now also include EPEL-8 and EPEL-9.

---

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/96.0...97.0>`_.
