.. _lts_92_0:

========
92.0 LTS
========

The Avocado team is proud to present another LTS (Long Term Stability)
release: Avocado 92.0, AKA "Monsters, Inc.", is now available!

LTS Release
===========

For more information on what a LTS release means, please read
:ref:`rfc-long-term-stability`.

Upgrading from 82.x to 92.0
===========================

Upgrading Installations
-----------------------

Avocado is available on a number of different repositories and
installation methods. You can find the complete details
:ref:`here <installing>`.

After looking at your installation options, please consider the
following when planning an in-place upgrade or a deployment version
bump:

* When using Python's own package management, that is, ``pip``, simply
  choose a version lower to the *next* Avocado release to benefit from
  minor releases (bugfixes) in this LTS series.  In short,
  ``avocado-framework<93.0`` will get you the latest release of this
  LTS series.

* When using RPM packages on Linux distributions that provide modular
  packages, select the ``92lts`` stream.  If no modules are available,
  use your package manager tools (such as DNF's versionlock plugin) to
  pin the installation to the 92.x versions.

Porting Tests
-------------

Test API compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is only one known incompatible changes on the Test API:

* The :class:`avocado.Test` used to contain a reference to its
  :class:`avocado.core.job.Job` in its ``job`` attribute.  Even
  though it was intended for internal use, the fact that the
  attribute was available to tests, means that tests could
  be relying on it.  If your test uses the ``job`` attribute,
  please consider looking at the suite's configuration instead,
  and passing that information as a test parameter.

Utility API compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The changes in the utility APIs (those that live under the
``avocado.utils`` namespace) are too many to present porting
suggestions.  Please refer to the :ref:`lts_92_0_utility_apis` section
for a comprehensive list of changes, including new features your test
may be able to leverage.

General points
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* With regards to logging, from now on, Avocado limits itself to
  ``avocado.*`` loggers. If your test is logging using the root
  logger ( ``logging.info(...)``), make sure you are using a proper
  namespace. i.e::

   import logging
   LOG = logging.getLogger('avocado.test.foo')
   LOG.info('your message')

Important Announcement
======================

Since the previous LTS version (82.0), Avocado has switched the
default runner, from the implementation most people currently use
(internally simply called ``runner``), to the newer architecture and
implementation called ``nrunner``).

**Users migrating from Avocado 82.x will be impacted by this change
and should act accordingly.**

To keep using the current (soon to be legacy) runner, you **must** set
the ``--test-runner=runner`` command line option (or the equivalent
``test_runner`` configuration option, under section ``[run]``).

Known issues are being tracked on our GitHub project page, with the
``nrunner`` tag, and new issue reports are appreciated.

Changes from previous LTS
=========================

.. note:: This is not a collection of all changes encompassing all releases
          from 82.0 to 92.0.  This list contains changes that are relevant
          to users of 82.0, when evaluating an upgrade to 92.0.

When compared to the last LTS (version 82.0), the main changes
introduced by this versions are:

Users / Test Writers
--------------------

* The ``nrunner`` test runner implementation is now the default on
  every ``avocado run`` command (or equivalent Job API scripts).
  Since the previous release, ``nrunner`` supports:

 1. the "fail fast" (``run --failfast``) feature.

 2. The ``--dry-run`` feature.

 3. :ref:`the varianter <varianter>` feature.

 4. UNIX domain sockets as the communication channel with runners (the
    new default).

 5. a ``sysinfo`` runner, which will allow for sysinfo collection on
    any supported spawner.

 6. early notification of missing runners for tasks in the requested
    suite.

* Yaml To Mux plugin now properly supports ``None`` values.

* Command line options related to results, such as
  ``--json-job-result``, ``--tap-job-result``, ``--xunit-job-result``
  and ``--html-job-result`` are now "proper boolean" options (such as
  ``--disable-json-job-result``, ``--disable-xunit-job-result``, etc).

* The JSON results (``results.json``) now contain a field with the
  path of the test log file.

* Pre and Post (job) plugins are now respected when used with the Job
  API.

* Support for ``avocado list`` "extra information" has been
  restored. This is used in Avocado-VT loaders. They will be removed
  (again) for good after its usage is deprecated and removed in
  Avocado-VT.

* It’s now possible to set a timeout (via the ``task.timeout.running
  configuration`` option) for nrunner tasks. Effectively this works as
  an execution timeout for tests run with ``--test-runner=nrunner``.

* The ``avocado assets`` command introduces three different subcommands:

  1. ``register`` allows users to register their own assets with the
     avocado assets register command. Then, the registered asset can
     be used transparently with the
     :meth:`avocado.core.test.Test.fetch_asset` by its name. This
     feature helps with tests that need to use assets that can not be
     downloaded by Avocado itself.

  2. ``list`` allows listing of assets based on their sizes or the
     number of days since they have been last accessed.

  3. ``purge`` allows purging of assets based on their sizes or the
     number of days since they have been last accessed.  For more
     information please refer to :ref:`managing-assets`.

* The assets plugin ``fetch`` command (``avocado assets fetch``) now
  supports:

  1. fetching assets defined in a Python list in ``INSTRUMENTED``
     tests.

  2. setting a timeout for the download of assets.

* :func:`avocado.skipIf` and :func:`avocado.skipUnless` now allow the
  condition to be a callable, to be evaluated much later, and also
  gives them access to the test class.  For more information, please
  refer to the documentation: :ref:`skip-advanced-conditionals`.

* The presentation of SIMPLE tests has been improved in the sense that
  they are now much more configurable. One can now set the
  ``simpletests.status.failure_fields`` to configure how the status
  line showed just after a failed test will look like, and
  ``job.output.testlogs.logfiles`` to determine the files that will be
  shown at the end of the job for failed tests.

* Avocado's safeloader (the system used to find Python based tests
  without executing them) received a major overhaul and now supports:

 1. Multi-level module imports, such as ``from my.base.test import
    Test`` where a project may contain a ``my/base`` directory
    structure containing ``test.py`` that defines a custom ``Test``
    class.

 2. Support for following the import/inheritance hierarchy when a
    module contains an import for a given symbol, instead of the
    actual ``class`` definition of a symbol.

 3. Considers coroutines (AKA ``async def``) as valid tests, reducing
    the number of boiler plate code necessary for tests of ``asyncio``
    based code.

 4. Supports class definitions (containing tests or not) that use a
    typing hint with subscription, commonly used in generics.

* Test parameters given with ``-p`` are now supported when using the
  nrunner.

* Improved checks when users attempt to use the varianter and simple
  parameters (``-p``) at the same time.

* All status server URIs in the configuration are now respected for
  ``nrunner`` executions.

* The resolver plugins now have access to the job/suite configuration.

* The data directories now have fewer heuristics and are now more
  predictable and consistent with the configuration set.

* The root logger for Python's :mod:`logging` should no longer be
  impacted by Avocado's own logging initialization and clean-up (which
  now limits itself to ``avocado.*`` loggers).

* The Podman spawner (``--nrunner-spawner=podman``) will now attempt
  to use a container image (``--spawner-podman-image=``) that matches
  the host Linux distribution. If it’s not possible to detect the host
  distribution, the latest Fedora image will be used.

* The ``exec-test`` runner now accepts a configuration
  (``runner.exectest.exitcodes.skip``) that will determine valid exit
  codes to be treated as ``SKIP`` test results.

* The Loader based on the YAML Multiplexer has been removed. Users are
  advised to use Job API and multiple test suites to fulfill similar
  use cases.

* The GLib plugin has been removed. Users are advised to use TAP test
  types instead, given that GLib’s GTest framework now defaults to
  producing TAP output.

* The paginator feature is now a boolean style option. To enable it,
  use ``--enable-paginator``.

* The nrunner status server now has two different options regarding
  its URI. The first one, ``--nrunner-status-server-listen``
  determines the URI to which a status server will listen. The second
  one, ``--nrunner-status-server-uri`` determines where the results
  will be sent to. This allows the status server to be on a different
  network location than the tasks reporting to it.

* The ``avocado-software-manager`` command line application now
  properly returns exit status for failures.

* The Podman spawner now exposes command-line options to set the
  container image (``--spawner-podman-image``) and the Podman binary
  (``--spawner-podman-bin``) used on an avocado invocation.

* The Requirements Resolver feature has been introduced, and it's
  available for general use.  It allows users to describe requirements
  tests may have, and will attempt to fulfill those before the test is
  executed.  It has support for **package** requirements, meaning
  operating system level packages such as RPM, DEB, etc, and **asset**
  requirements, allowing users to declare any asset obtainable with
  :mod:`avocado.utils.asset` to be downloaded, cached and thus be
  available to tests.

  This can greatly simplify the setup of the environments the tests
  will run on, and at the same time, not cause test errors because of
  the missing requirements (which will cause the test to be skipped).

  For more information please refer to the :ref:`managing-requirements`
  section.

* ``avocado list`` got a ``--json`` option, which will output the list
  of tests in a machine-readable format.

* The minimal Python version requirement now is 3.6. Python 3.5 and
  earlier are not tested nor supported starting with this release.

* Because of the characteristics of the nrunner architecture, it has
  been decided that log content generated by tests will not be copied
  to the ``job.log`` file, but will only be available on the
  respective test logs on the ``test-results`` directory. Still, users
  will often need to know if tests have been started or have finished
  while looking at the ``job.log`` file. This feature has been
  implemented by means of the ``testlogs`` plugin.

* Avocado will log a warning, making it clear that it can not check
  the integrity of a requested asset when no hash is given. This is
  related to users of the :mod:`avocado.utils.asset` module or
  :meth:`avocado.Test.fetch_asset` utility method.

* Avocado’s cache directory defined in the configuration will now have
  the ultimate saying, instead of the dynamic probe for “sensible”
  cache directories that could end up not respecting the user’s
  configurations.

* The man page has been thoroughly updated and put in sync with the
  current avocado command features and options.

* Avocado can now run from Python eggs. It’s expected that official
  egg builds will be made available in the future. Avocado is planning
  to use eggs as an automatic and transparent deployment mechanism for
  environments such as containers and VMs.

* The ``datadir.paths.logs_dir`` and ``datadir.paths.data_dir`` are
  set to more consistent and predictable values, and won’t rely
  anymore on dynamic probes for “suitable” directories.

* The Human UI plugin can now be configured to omit certain statuses
  from being show in a new line.  This can be used, for instance, to
  prevent the ``STARTED`` lines to be shown, showing only the final
  test result.

* The nrunner ``exec`` runnable kind does not exist anymore, and its
  functionality was consolidated into the ``exec-test``.

* Executing Python's unittest that are skipped are now always shown as
  having status ``SKIP``, instead of the previous ``CANCEL``.

* Avocado will no longer incorporate log messages coming from any
  logger (including the "root logger") into the test's and job's log
  files.  Only loggers that under the ``avocado.`` namespace will be
  included.  Users are encouraged to continue to follow the pattern::

    self.log.info("message goes here")

  When logging from a test.  When logging from somewhere else, the
  following pattern is advised (replace ``my.namespace``
  accordingly)::

    import logging
    LOG = logging.getLogger('avocado.my.namespace')
    LOG.info('your message')

* Python 3.10 is now fully supported.

* The reason for fail/error/skip tests in Python unittest are now
  given on the various test result formats (including on the UI).

Bug Fixes
---------

* The ``run.dict_variants`` setting is now properly registered in an
  Init plugin.

* The avocado replay command was calling pre/post plugins twice after
  a change delegated that responsibility to
  :meth:`avocado.core.job.Job.run`.

* The :mod:`avocado.core.safeloader` now supports relative imports
  with names, meaning that syntax such as ``from ..upper import foo``
  was not properly parsed.

* The TAP parser (:mod:`avocado.core.tapparser`) will not choke on
  unexpected content, ignoring it according to the standard.

* The assets plugin (``avocado assets`` command) now returns
  meaningful exit code on some failures and success situations.

* The extraction of DEB packages by means of
  :meth:`avocado.utils.software_manager.SoftwareManager.extract_from_package`
  was fixed and does not depend on the ``ar`` utility anymore (as it now
  uses the :mod:`avocado.utils.ar` module).

* The ``--store-logging-stream`` parameter value was being incorrectly
  parsed as a list of characters. If a ``bar`` value is given, it
  would generate the ``b.INFO``, ``a.INFO``, and ``r.INFO`` file. The
  fix parses the command line arguments by treating the value as a
  comma-separated list (that becomes a set).

* If a job contains multiple test suites with the same name, and tests
  within those suites also have the same name, test results would be
  overwritten. Now job name uniqueness is enforced and no test results
  from a suite should be able to overwrite others.

* :meth:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface.is_admin_link_up`
  and
  :meth:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface.is_operational_link_up`
  now behave properly on interfaces based on bonding.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.process` utilities that use ``sudo`` would check
  for executable permissions on the binary. Many systems will have
  sudo with the executable bit set, but not the readable bit. This is
  now accounted for.

* The “external runner” feature now works properly when used outside
  of an avocado command-line invocation, that is, when used in a
  script based on the Job APIs.

* Avocado will now give an error message and exit cleanly, instead of
  crashing, when the resulting test suite to be executed contains no
  tests. That can happen, for instance, when invalid references are
  given along with the ``--ignore-missing-references`` command-line
  option.

* A crash when running ``avocado distro --distro-def-create`` has been
  fixed.

* Properties, that is, methods decorated with ``@property`` are no
  longer seen as tests.

* If a path to a Python unittest file contained dots, the conversion
  to a unittest "dotted name" would fail.

* Tests on classes that inherit from one marked with ``:avocado:
  disable`` were not being detected.

nrunner stabilization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* :class:`avocado.core.nrunner.Runnables` created by suites will now
  contain the full suite configuration.

* The nrunner implementation for ``exec-test`` suffered from a
  limitation to the amount of output it could collect. It was related
  to the size of the ``PIPE`` used internally by the Python subprocess
  module. This limitation has now been lifted.

* nrunner will now properly translate reference names with absolute
  paths into Python unittest “dotted names”.

* The nrunner status server can be configured with the maximum buffer
  size that it uses.

* The ``avocado-instrumented`` nrunner runner now covers all valid
  test statuses.

* The correct failure reason for tests executed with the nrunner is
  now being captured, instead of a possible exception caused by an
  error within the runner itself.

* The nrunner status server socket is now properly closed, which
  allows multiple test suites in a job to not conflict.

* The nrunner status server now properly handles the asyncio API with
  Python 3.6.

* The ``testlog`` plugin wasn’t able to show the log location for
  tests executed via the ``avocado-runner-avocado-instrumented``
  runner and this is now fixed.

* The ``avocado-runner-avocado-instrumented`` was producing duplicate
  log entries because Avocado’s log handler for the
  :class:`avocado.core.test.Test` was previously configured to
  propagate the logged messages.

* The nrunner TAP runner now supports/parses large amounts of data,
  where it would previously crash when buffers were overrun.

* The Podman spawner will now respect the Podman binary set in the job
  configuration.

* The ``whiteboard`` file and data are now properly saved when using
  the nrunner.

* Some occurrences of the incorrect ``AVOCADO_TEST_OUTPUT_DIR``
  environment variable name were renamed to the proper name
  ``AVOCADO_TEST_OUTPUTDIR``.

* The selection of an nrunner based runner, from its Python module
  name/path, has been fixed.

* The ``nrunner`` now properly sets all test status to the suite summary,
  making sure that errors are communicated to the end-user through,
  among other means, the avocado execution exit code.

* When running tests in parallel, multiple downloads of the same image
  (when using :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage`) is now prevented by a
  better (early) locking.

* A condition in which tests running in parallel could collide over
  the existence of the asset’s cache directory (created by other
  running tests) is now fixed.

.. _lts_92_0_utility_apis:

Utility APIs
------------

* A new :mod:`avocado.utils.ar` module was introduced that allows
  extraction of UNIX ar archive contents.

* A new :mod:`avocado.utils.sysinfo` module that powers the sysinfo
  feature, but is now also accessible to job/test writers.

* Times related to the duration of tasks are now limited to nanosecond
  precision to improve readability.

* A new module :mod:`avocado.utils.dmesg` with utilities for
  interacting with the kernel ring buffer messages.

* A new utility :func:`avocado.utils.linux.is_selinux_enforcing`
  allows quick check of SELinux enforcing status.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.pmem` library introduced a number of new
  utility methods, adding support for daxctl operations such as
  ``offline-memory``, ``online-memory``, and ``reconfigure-device``.

* :meth:`avocado.utils.software_manager.SoftwareManager.extract_from_package`
  is a new method that lets users extract the content of supported
  package types (currently RPM and DEB).

* :mod:`avocado.utils.pci` now accommodates newer slot names.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.memory` now properly handles the 16GB hugepages
  with both the HASH and Radix MMU (by removing the check in case
  Radix is used).

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.cloudinit` module will give a better error
  message when the system is not capable of creating ISO images, with
  a solution for resolution.

* Various documentation improvements for the
  :mod:`avocado.core.multipath` module.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.partition` utility module now properly keeps
  track of loop devices and multiple mounts per device.

* A specific exception, and thus a clearer error message, is now used
  when a command with an empty string is given to
  :func:`avocado.utils.process.run`.

:mod:`avocado.utils.ssh`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* :class:`avocado.utils.ssh.Session` now contains a
  :meth:`avocado.utils.ssh.Session.cleanup_master` method and a
  :attr:`avocado.utils.ssh.Session.control_master` property.

* :mod:`avocado.utils.ssh` now respects the username set when copying
  files via ``scp``.

:mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.vmimage` can now access both current and
  non-current Fedora versions (which are hosted at different
  locations).

* :func:`avocado.utils.vmimage.get` is now deprecated in favor of
  :meth:`avocado.utils.vmimage.Image.from_parameters`

:mod:`avocado.utils.network`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces` now supports setting
  configuration for SUSE-based systems.

* :class:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface` can now
  access and present information on interfaces that do not have an IP
  address assigned to them.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.network.hosts` won’t consider
  bonding_masters anymore, a file that may exist at
  ``/sys/class/net``, as the name of an interface.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces` now support
  configuration files compatible with SUSE distributions.

* :meth:`avocado.utils.network.interfaces.NetworkInterface.remove_link`
  is a new utility method that allows one to delete a virtual
  interface link.

* :meth:`avocado.utils.network.hosts.Host.get_default_route_interface` is a
  new utility method that allows one to get a list of default routes
  interfaces.

:mod:`avocado.utils.cpu`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu` now makes available mapping of vendor
  names to the data that matches in ``/proc/cpuinfo`` on that vendor’s
  CPUs (:attr:`avocado.utils.cpu.VENDORS_MAP`). This allows users to
  have visibility about the logic used to determine the vendor’s name,
  and overwrite it if needed.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.cpu` library now properly handles the s390x
  z13 family of CPUs.

:mod:`avocado.utils.distro`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* :mod:`avocado.utils.distro: can now detect the distribution on remote
  machines.

* The :mod:`avocado.utils.distro: will now correctly return a
  ``avocado.utils.distro.UNKNOWN_DISTRO`` on non UNIX systems, instead of
  crashing.

Complete list of changes
------------------------

For a complete list of changes between the last LTS release (82.1) and
this release, please check out `the Avocado commit changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/82.1...92.0>`_.
