BP005
#####

:Number: BP005
:Title: autils project plan: An unified standalone repository for utility libraries
:Author: Beraldo Leal <bleal@redhat.com>, Cleber Rosa <crosa@redhat.com>
:Discussions-To: avocado-devel@redhat.com or PR thread
:Reviewers: Plamen Dimitrov <pdimitrov@pevogam.com>,  Xu Han
            <xuhan@redhat.com>,  Chunfu Wen <chwen@redhat.com>, Dan Zheng
            <dzheng@redhat.com>
:Created: 14-June-2022
:Type: Process Blueprint
:Status: Approved

.. contents:: Table of Contents

TL;DR
*****

This blueprint describes the plan for migrating the utilities libraries present
in Avocado and related projects to a standalone and central repository. Such a
repository, called autils, is about having well tested utilities that will keep
test writers efforts in the features to be tested, and away from debugging and
troubleshooting those libraries. While this repository initially targets
Avocado users writing tests, it should be generic enough for consumption by
third-party developers outside of the Avocado community.  It presents a glimpse
of the infrastructure that will guarantee quality criteria and will ease the
onboarding and maintenance of such libraries.

Besides the plan, with the migration steps for the current libraries, this
blueprint also presents the tasks already known to be necessary in order to
achieve this goal.


.. note:: When reading here, in this document, "avocado.utils", please take
          into consideration Avocado and Avocado-VT utility libraries.


Motivation
**********

1. More than just test utility libraries

   Our current libraries are not only useful for writing tests, they are
   basically system level utilities that could help not only test writers but
   also day to day tasks. Splitting the repository can increase the adoption by
   other projects that will choose to use this standalone repo because of its
   inherent value.

2. Better reuse of libraries and code between Avocado, Avocado-VT and third
   party projects

   Currently we are duplicating efforts by maintaining common libraries in Avocado
   and Avocado-VT. By concentrating those libraries in a standalone repository, we
   will make sure they will be well suited for different use cases.  By having
   more users, the quality and collaboration of those libraries will be improved.
   Also, third-party software will be able to import those libraries without the
   need of having the entire Avocado framework as a dependency. This will reduce
   the learning curve of future potential users that don't need the entire
   framework.

3. Making it clear to our users that Avocado framework is not Python-centric:

   Currently, those utility libraries can only be used by Python tests and the
   Avocado framework was designed to support tests written in multiple
   languages.  By having those libraries outside the core harness codebase we
   reinforce the language agnostic characteristic of Avocado.

4. Reduce traffic in the main framework repository and allow for a scalable
   community on its own standalone project

   As evidenced by “avocado-misc-tests”, a more focused standalone project will
   attract a larger number of similar minded developers and users. By being a
   simpler standalone repository, with its own specific contributions
   guidelines, the entry barriers are also lowered.


Specification
*************

To avoid the need to change our current imports, our first attempt was to keep
the "avocado.utils" namespace regardless of the location of its codebase by
using the Implicit Package Namespace (PEP-420) approach. Namespace packages are
a mechanism for splitting a single Python package across multiple directories
on disk. Unfortunately, to be able to convert the avocado.utils.* modules and
packages into a namespace package, we would need to remove the `__init__.py`
files from multiple places. That would break, among other things, the current
Avocado egg based deployment model used on spawners such as podman.

Because of that, we decided to have a new namespace for the utility libraries.
We ran a poll to choose the name and `autils` (Avocado Utils) was the winner.
So our goal is to host common libraries under `avocado-project/autils`
repository on GitHub and make them also available on PyPI under `python-autils`
package name, since the `autils` name is unavailable.

Utility onboarding
==================

The primary goal of autils is to be a central place for modules that ease the
interaction with system level features and interfaces.  As such, if a user
needs to interact with such a system level feature or interface, he/she may
propose a new module.

For instance, if a user finds himself/herself constantly interacting with disk
partitions, he/she may want to propose a “partitions” module that provides
basic APIs for that. In this case it makes sense to have it as part of this
central repository.

However, if the utility intends to ease the interaction with an esoteric
feature, system or device, this may not be a good place for it.

As a general rule, if a system level feature or interface is generically
available to a multitude of users, such as the partition example above, it is a
good candidate for this repository. Common sense is much appreciated here and
we can always review the proposals during the PR submission or within a Github
discussion thread (even before the proposal is ready for submission).

Besides that, the proposed utility must have at least one MAINTAINER that will
be responsible for keeping track of Pull Requests, tests and quality
requirements as described below:

Quality requirements
--------------------

It’s expected that both new modules and changes to existing modules will need
to observe a full set of quality requirements and general standards that will
either be described (documentation) and enforced as automated checks as much as
possible.

Among the topics related to the quality requirements and standards, the
contribution documentation and automated checks will cover, at least:

* Logical, stylistic, analytical and formatter checks

  * Docstring checks
  * Pylint
  * PEP-8, PEP-257, etc…

* Unit and Functional Tests Coverage

  Due to the current code quality and given this is a new repository we would
  like to reach at least 90% of coverage. This way, users writing tests relying
  on these libraries will have a guarantee of a good level of correctness and
  quality, redirecting the debugging and troubleshooting efforts away from the
  well tested libraries.

The new standalone repository will have predefined pipelines to run those
checks. Newly added libraries will automatically be subject to those checks.

Metadata description
--------------------

Every module will need to provide a description including:

* Utility description
* The utility category (ie: network, cpu, security, etc..)
* Maintainers information
  * Main contact (We need a contact point, a single maintainer or a group)
  * Maintainer Group members (this will be used to block merges)
* Supported Platforms
* Supported execution method (Local vs Remote)
  We intend to flag modules that have the capability of acting on remote
  systems. This will probably be a broad classification, just for informational
  purposes because unfortunately we have way too many ways of executing code
  remotely.

  We don't hope to address a complete standardization of the remote execution
  APIs just yet, but we want to at least bring some visibility to it.

For instance, the textual category and description will allow users to search
for modules based on their interest.  Also, our pipelines will parse that data
field containing the list of supported platforms, and will trigger tests on
those platforms. Users will then be able to see the results of those tests on
each of the platforms defined, giving them quality assurance and coverage
there.

The exact format of the metadata file is still to be defined, but a possibility
is to define a JSON schema that will be provided on this new repository.

Maintainability
===============

As described above, each library must follow the new standard and keep that
same level for future versions. Because of that, new PRs must be approved by at
least one MAINTAINER and pass the basic checks pipelines that will be provided
as part of the autils repository.

Besides the automatic checks, each MAINTAINER is responsible for keeping the
consistency of that library with the overall project.

Release
=======

As a new and standalone repository, there will not be any type of release
version sync between Avocado and autils.  Avocado may release, say, version
100.0, while autils won’t have a release. Because of that, autils will be
versioned at a different pace than Avocado.

Every week an automatic job will be executed to determine if there is a
potential need for a new release:

* If the number of commits since last release has reached a threshold; AND
* There is no open discussion with the tag “release-decision”:
  * Creates a new discussion (with the "release-decision" tag) to run a poll
  between all the MAINTAINERS, so they will have the opportunity to thumbs
  up if there is a need for a new release;
  * The link to the new discussion should be sent to all MAINTAINERS;
  * If the decision is positive, a round-robin selected maintainer should be
  responsible for coordinating the release it self;
  * And the discussion should be closed
* If there is any existing open discussion, the bot job should comment on the
  same discussion with the updated list of commits and ping again the
  MAINTAINERS, give them the opportunity to thumbs up based on the new
  status;

Manual release process could also be started if a MAINTAINER think it is a good
timing (i.e: Security bug or critical bug it was fixed).

Backwards Compatibility
***********************

The current libraries are not going to be removed right away. A transition
period is expected for migrating each library into this new standard, and
because of that libraries in transition should be available, receive bug fixes
for at least one LTS cycle.

Each library in our current code base, should receive a status flag, informing
users what their current status is, according on the following table:

1. maintainer-wanted

  The library is using the legacy mode, and it is not yet converted to the
  autils repository. This should be the status for all avocado.utils.*
  (including Avocado-VT utils) libraries upon the creation of the autils
  repository.

2. adopted

  A maintainer has picked up this library to be ported to the autils
  repository.  It’s not expected yet that a working version is available on
  autils, but someone is working on the migration.  During this period, the
  avocado.utils (or Avocado-VT) library should continue to receive both bug
  fixes and improvements.  It’s the maintainer’s responsibility to make sure
  that the work in progress version of the new autils library includes the same
  bug fixes and improvements merged during this phase.

3. migrated

 This means the current avocado.utils library is deprecated in favor of the
 migrated version at the autils repository. During at least one Avocado LTS
 cycle period, the avocado.utils version of the libraries should:

  * Include warnings in each deprecated method or function, pointing users to
    the equivalent method or function in the new autils library
  * Keep receiving critical bug fixes backported from the new autils version

 At this point, this library has an official maintainer who will be the main
 point of contact for.

4. abandoned

  * There are no plans to migrate the library to autils.

Once at least one LTS cycle has passed after the “migrated” status, the legacy
library can be permanently removed from its repository of origin.

Security Implications
*********************

None so far

How to Teach This
*****************

We could provide a few support material as reference:

1. An "onboarding guide" on how to send a new library to this repository
2. A template library directory structure that can be used as bootstrap for a
     new library
3. Existing libraries in this new repository can also be used as examples

Related Issues
**************

Todo: before "approved": Create the following epic issues on GH:

* Migrate one library as a "reference implementation". I.e: "network" or
  "archive"
* Create an improved version of our contributor guide focused on the autils
  repository
* Create pipeline jobs inside the new repository
* Create release polling bot

References
**********
