.. _writing-tests:

=====================
Writing Avocado Tests
=====================

We are going to write an Avocado test in Python and we are going to inherit from
:class:`avocado.Test`. This makes this test a so-called instrumented test.

Basic example
=============

Let's re-create an old time favorite, ``sleeptest`` [#f1]_.  It is so simple, it
does nothing besides sleeping for a while::

        import time

        from avocado import Test

        class SleepTest(Test):

            def test(self):
                sleep_length = self.params.get('sleep_length', default=1)
                self.log.debug("Sleeping for %.2f seconds", sleep_length)
                time.sleep(sleep_length)

This is about the simplest test you can write for Avocado, while still
leveraging its API power.

What is an Avocado Test
-----------------------

As can be seen in the example above, an Avocado test is a method that
starts with ``test`` in a class that inherits from :mod:`avocado.Test`.

Multiple tests and naming conventions
-------------------------------------

You can have multiple tests in a single class.

To do so, just give the methods names that start with ``test``, say
``test_foo``, ``test_bar`` and so on. We recommend you follow this naming
style, as defined in the `PEP8 Function Names`_ section.

For the class name, you can pick any name you like, but we also recommend
that it follows the CamelCase convention, also known as CapWords, defined
in the PEP 8 document under `Class Names`_.

Convenience Attributes
----------------------

Note that the test class provides you with a number of convenience attributes:

* A ready to use log mechanism for your test, that can be accessed by means
  of ``self.log``. It lets you log debug, info, error and warning messages.
* A parameter passing system (and fetching system) that can be accessed by
  means of ``self.params``. This is hooked to the Multiplexer, about which
  you can find that more information at :doc:`TestParameters`.

Saving test generated (custom) data
===================================

Each test instance provides a so called ``whiteboard``. It can be accessed
through ``self.whiteboard``. This whiteboard is simply a string that will be
automatically saved to test results (as long as the output format supports it).
If you choose to save binary data to the whiteboard, it's your responsibility to
encode it first (base64 is the obvious choice).

Building on the previously demonstrated ``sleeptest``, suppose that you want to save the
sleep length to be used by some other script or data analysis tool::

        def test(self):
            sleep_length = self.params.get('sleep_length', default=1)
            self.log.debug("Sleeping for %.2f seconds", sleep_length)
            time.sleep(sleep_length)
            self.whiteboard = "%.2f" % sleep_length

The whiteboard can and should be exposed by files generated by the available test result
plugins. The ``results.json`` file already includes the whiteboard for each test.
Additionally, we'll save a raw copy of the whiteboard contents on a file named
``whiteboard``, in the same level as the ``results.json`` file, for your convenience
(maybe you want to use the result of a benchmark directly with your custom made scripts
to analyze that particular benchmark result).

If you need to attach several output files, you can also use
``self.outputdir``, which points to the
``$RESULTS/test-results/$TEST_ID/data`` location and is reserved for
arbitrary test result data.

.. _accessing-test-parameters:

Accessing test parameters
=========================

Each test has a set of parameters that can be accessed through
``self.params.get($name, $path=None, $default=None)`` where:

* name - name of the parameter (key)
* path - where to look for this parameter (when not specified uses mux-path)
* default - what to return when param not found

The path is a bit tricky. Avocado uses tree to represent parameters. In simple
scenarios you don't need to worry and you'll find all your values in default
path, but eventually you might want to check-out :doc:`TestParameters` to understand
the details.

Let's say your test receives following params (you'll learn how to execute
them in the following section)::

    $ avocado multiplex -m examples/tests/sleeptenmin.py.data/sleeptenmin.yaml --variants 2
    ...
    Variant 1:    /run/sleeptenmin/builtin, /run/variants/one_cycle
        /run/sleeptenmin/builtin:sleep_method => builtin
        /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_cycles  => 1
        /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_length  => 600
    ...

In test you can access those params by::

.. code-block:: python

    self.params.get("sleep_method")    # returns "builtin"
    self.params.get("sleep_cycles", '*', 10)    # returns 1
    self.params.get("sleep_length", "/*/variants/*"  # returns 600

.. note:: The path is important in complex scenarios where clashes might
          occur, because when there are multiple values with the same
          key matching the query avocado raises an exception. As mentioned
          you can avoid those by using specific paths or by defining
          custom mux-path which allows specifying resolving hierarchy.
          More details can be found in :doc:`TestParameters`.


Running multiple variants of tests
==================================

In previous section we describe the params handling so let's have a look on
how to produce them and execute your tests with different params.

The variants system is pluggable so you might use custom plugins to
produce and feed avocado with your params, but let's start with the
plugin called "yaml_to_mux", which is shipped with avocado by default.
It accepts ``yaml`` or even ``json`` files where using ordered dicts
to create a tree-like structure and storing the non-dict variables as
parameters and using custom tags to mark locations as multiplex domains.
Let's use ``examples/tests/sleeptenmin.py.data/sleeptenmin.yaml`` file as
an example::

.. code-block:: yaml

   sleeptenmin: !mux
       builtin:
           sleep_method: builtin
       shell:
           sleep_method: shell
   variants: !mux
       one_cycle:
           sleep_cycles: 1
           sleep_length: 600
       six_cycles:
           sleep_cycles: 6
           sleep_length: 100
       one_hundred_cycles:
           sleep_cycles: 100
           sleep_length: 6
       six_hundred_cycles:
           sleep_cycles: 600
           sleep_length: 1

Which produces following structure and parameters::

      $ avocado multiplex -m examples/tests/sleeptenmin.py.data/sleeptenmin.yaml --summary 2 --variants 2
      Multiplex tree representation:
       ┗━━ run
            ┣━━ sleeptenmin
            ┃    ╠══ builtin
            ┃    ║     → sleep_method: builtin
            ┃    ╚══ shell
            ┃          → sleep_method: shell
            ┗━━ variants
                 ╠══ one_cycle
                 ║     → sleep_length: 600
                 ║     → sleep_cycles: 1
                 ╠══ six_cycles
                 ║     → sleep_length: 100
                 ║     → sleep_cycles: 6
                 ╠══ one_hundred_cycles
                 ║     → sleep_length: 6
                 ║     → sleep_cycles: 100
                 ╚══ six_hundred_cycles
                       → sleep_length: 1
                       → sleep_cycles: 600

      Multiplex variants:

      Variant 1:    /run/sleeptenmin/builtin, /run/variants/one_cycle
          /run/sleeptenmin/builtin:sleep_method => builtin
          /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_cycles  => 1
          /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_length  => 600

      Variant 2:    /run/sleeptenmin/builtin, /run/variants/six_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/builtin:sleep_method => builtin
          /run/variants/six_cycles:sleep_cycles => 6
          /run/variants/six_cycles:sleep_length => 100

      Variant 3:    /run/sleeptenmin/builtin, /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/builtin:sleep_method         => builtin
          /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles:sleep_cycles => 100
          /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles:sleep_length => 6

      Variant 4:    /run/sleeptenmin/builtin, /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/builtin:sleep_method         => builtin
          /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles:sleep_cycles => 600
          /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles:sleep_length => 1

      Variant 5:    /run/sleeptenmin/shell, /run/variants/one_cycle
          /run/sleeptenmin/shell:sleep_method  => shell
          /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_cycles => 1
          /run/variants/one_cycle:sleep_length => 600

      Variant 6:    /run/sleeptenmin/shell, /run/variants/six_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/shell:sleep_method   => shell
          /run/variants/six_cycles:sleep_cycles => 6
          /run/variants/six_cycles:sleep_length => 100

      Variant 7:    /run/sleeptenmin/shell, /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/shell:sleep_method           => shell
          /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles:sleep_cycles => 100
          /run/variants/one_hundred_cycles:sleep_length => 6

      Variant 8:    /run/sleeptenmin/shell, /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles
          /run/sleeptenmin/shell:sleep_method           => shell
          /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles:sleep_cycles => 600
          /run/variants/six_hundred_cycles:sleep_length => 1

You can see that it creates all possible variants of each ``multiplex domain``,
which are defined by ``!mux`` tag in the yaml file and displayed as single
lines in tree view (compare to double lines which are individual nodes with
values). In total it'll produce 8 variants of each test::

      $ avocado run --mux-yaml examples/tests/sleeptenmin.py.data/sleeptenmin.yaml -- passtest.py
      JOB ID     : cc7ef22654c683b73174af6f97bc385da5a0f02f
      JOB LOG    : /home/medic/avocado/job-results/job-2017-01-22T11.26-cc7ef22/job.log
      TESTS      : 1
       (1/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;1: PASS (0.01 s)
       (2/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;2: PASS (0.01 s)
       (3/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;3: PASS (0.01 s)
       (4/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;4: PASS (0.01 s)
       (5/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;5: PASS (0.01 s)
       (6/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;6: PASS (0.01 s)
       (7/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;7: PASS (0.01 s)
       (8/8) passtest.py:PassTest.test;8: PASS (0.01 s)
      RESULTS    : PASS 8 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
      TESTS TIME : 0.06 s

There are other options to influence the params so please check out
``avocado run -h`` and for details use :doc:`TestParameters`.


Advanced logging capabilities
=============================

Avocado provides advanced logging capabilities at test run time.  These can
be combined with the standard Python library APIs on tests.

One common example is the need to follow specific progress on longer or more
complex tests. Let's look at a very simple test example, but one multiple
clear stages on a single test::

    import logging
    import time

    from avocado import Test

    progress_log = logging.getLogger("progress")

    class Plant(Test):

        def test_plant_organic(self):
            rows = self.params.get("rows", default=3)

            # Preparing soil
            for row in range(rows):
                progress_log.info("%s: preparing soil on row %s",
                                  self.name, row)

            # Letting soil rest
            progress_log.info("%s: letting soil rest before throwing seeds",
                              self.name)
            time.sleep(2)

            # Throwing seeds
            for row in range(rows):
                progress_log.info("%s: throwing seeds on row %s",
                                  self.name, row)

            # Let them grow
            progress_log.info("%s: waiting for Avocados to grow",
                              self.name)
            time.sleep(5)

            # Harvest them
            for row in range(rows):
                progress_log.info("%s: harvesting organic avocados on row %s",
                                  self.name, row)


From this point on, you can ask Avocado to show your logging stream, either
exclusively or in addition to other builtin streams::

    $ avocado --show app,progress run plant.py

The outcome should be similar to::

    JOB ID     : af786f86db530bff26cd6a92c36e99bedcdca95b
    JOB LOG    : /home/cleber/avocado/job-results/job-2016-03-18T10.29-af786f8/job.log
    TESTS      : 1
     (1/1) plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 0
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 1
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 2
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: letting soil rest before throwing seeds
    -progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 0
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 1
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 2
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: waiting for Avocados to grow
    \progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 0
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 1
    progress: 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 2
    PASS (7.01 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 1 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 7.01 s
    JOB HTML   : /home/cleber/avocado/job-results/job-2016-03-18T10.29-af786f8/html/results.html

The custom ``progress`` stream is combined with the application output, which
may or may not suit your needs or preferences. If you want the ``progress``
stream to be sent to a separate file, both for clarity and for persistence,
you can run Avocado like this::

    $ avocado run plant.py --store-logging-stream progress

The result is that, besides all the other log files commonly generated, there
will be another log file named ``progress.INFO`` at the job results
dir. During the test run, one could watch the progress with::

    $ tail -f ~/avocado/job-results/latest/progress.INFO
    10:36:59 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 0
    10:36:59 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 1
    10:36:59 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: preparing soil on row 2
    10:36:59 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: letting soil rest before throwing seeds
    10:37:01 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 0
    10:37:01 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 1
    10:37:01 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: throwing seeds on row 2
    10:37:01 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: waiting for Avocados to grow
    10:37:06 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 0
    10:37:06 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 1
    10:37:06 INFO | 1-plant.py:Plant.test_plant_organic: harvesting organic avocados on row 2

The very same ``progress`` logger, could be used across multiple test methods
and across multiple test modules.  In the example given, the test name is used
to give extra context.

:class:`unittest.TestCase` heritage
===================================

Since an Avocado test inherits from :class:`unittest.TestCase`, you
can use all the assertion methods that its parent.

The code example bellow uses :meth:`assertEqual
<unittest.TestCase.assertEqual>`, :meth:`assertTrue
<unittest.TestCase.assertTrue>` and :meth:`assertIsInstace
<unittest.TestCase.assertIsInstance>`::

    from avocado import Test

    class RandomExamples(Test):
        def test(self):
            self.log.debug("Verifying some random math...")
            four = 2 * 2
            four_ = 2 + 2
            self.assertEqual(four, four_, "something is very wrong here!")

            self.log.debug("Verifying if a variable is set to True...")
            variable = True
            self.assertTrue(variable)

            self.log.debug("Verifying if this test is an instance of test.Test")
            self.assertIsInstance(self, test.Test)

Running tests under other :mod:`unittest` runners
-------------------------------------------------

`nose <https://nose.readthedocs.org/>`__ is another Python testing framework
that is also compatible with :mod:`unittest`.

Because of that, you can run avocado tests with the ``nosetests`` application::

    $ nosetests examples/tests/sleeptest.py
    .
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 1 test in 1.004s

    OK

Conversely, you can also use the standard :func:`unittest.main` entry point to run an
Avocado test. Check out the following code, to be saved as ``dummy.py``::

   from avocado import Test
   from unittest import main

   class Dummy(Test):
       def test(self):
           self.assertTrue(True)

   if __name__ == '__main__':
       main()

It can be run by::

   $ python dummy.py
   .
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Ran 1 test in 0.000s

   OK

Setup and cleanup methods
=========================

If you need to perform setup actions before/after your test, you may do so
in the ``setUp`` and ``tearDown`` methods, respectively. We'll give examples
in the following section.

Running third party test suites
===============================

It is very common in test automation workloads to use test suites developed
by third parties. By wrapping the execution code inside an Avocado test module,
you gain access to the facilities and API provided by the framework. Let's
say you want to pick up a test suite written in C that it is in a tarball,
uncompress it, compile the suite code, and then executing the test. Here's
an example that does that::

    #!/usr/bin/env python

    import os

    from avocado import Test
    from avocado import main
    from avocado.utils import archive
    from avocado.utils import build
    from avocado.utils import process


    class SyncTest(Test):

        """
        Execute the synctest test suite.
        """
        def setUp(self):
            """
            Set default params and build the synctest suite.
            """
            sync_tarball = self.params.get('sync_tarball',
                                           default='synctest.tar.bz2')
            self.sync_length = self.params.get('sync_length', default=100)
            self.sync_loop = self.params.get('sync_loop', default=10)
            # Build the synctest suite
            self.cwd = os.getcwd()
            tarball_path = os.path.join(self.datadir, sync_tarball)
            archive.extract(tarball_path, self.srcdir)
            self.srcdir = os.path.join(self.srcdir, 'synctest')
            build.make(self.srcdir)

        def test(self):
            """
            Execute synctest with the appropriate params.
            """
            os.chdir(self.srcdir)
            cmd = ('./synctest %s %s' %
                   (self.sync_length, self.sync_loop))
            process.system(cmd)
            os.chdir(self.cwd)


    if __name__ == "__main__":
        main()

Here we have an example of the ``setUp`` method in action: Here we get the
location of the test suite code (tarball) through
:meth:`avocado.Test.datadir`, then uncompress the tarball through
:func:`avocado.utils.archive.extract`, an API that will
decompress the suite tarball, followed by :func:`avocado.utils.build.make`, that will build
the suite.

In this example, the ``test`` method just gets into the base directory of
the compiled suite  and executes the ``./synctest`` command, with appropriate
parameters, using :func:`avocado.utils.process.system`.

Fetching asset files
====================

To run third party test suites as mentioned above, or for any other purpose,
we offer an asset fetcher as a method of Avocado Test class.
The asset method looks for a list of directories in the ``cache_dirs`` key,
inside the ``[datadir.paths]`` section from the configuration files. Read-only
directories are also supported. When the asset file is not present in any of
the provided directories, we will try to download the file from the provided
locations, copying it to the first writable cache directory. Example::

    cache_dirs = ['/usr/local/src/', '~/avocado/cache']

In the example above, ``/usr/local/src/`` is a read-only directory. In that
case, when we need to fetch the asset from the locations, it will be copied to
the ``~/avocado/cache`` directory.

If you don't provide a ``cache_dirs``, we will create a ``cache`` directory
inside the avocado ``data_dir`` location to put the fetched files in.

* Use case 1: no ``cache_dirs`` key in config files, only the asset name
  provided in the full url format::

    ...
        def setUp(self):
            stress = 'http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~apw/stress/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz'
            tarball = self.fetch_asset(stress)
            archive.extract(tarball, self.srcdir)
    ...

  In this case, ``fetch_asset()`` will download the file from the url provided,
  copying it to the ``$data_dir/cache`` directory. ``tarball`` variable  will
  contains, for example, ``/home/user/avocado/data/cache/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz``.

* Use case 2: Read-only cache directory provided. ``cache_dirs = ['/mnt/files']``::

    ...
        def setUp(self):
            stress = 'http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~apw/stress/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz'
            tarball = self.fetch_asset(stress)
            archive.extract(tarball, self.srcdir)
    ...

  In this case, we try to find ``stress-1.0.4.tar.gz`` file in ``/mnt/files``
  directory. If it's not there, since ``/mnt/files`` is read-only,  we will try
  to download the asset file to the ``$data_dir/cache`` directory.

* Use case 3: Writable cache directory provided, along with a list of
  locations. ``cache_dirs = ['~/avocado/cache']``::

    ...
        def setUp(self):
            st_name = 'stress-1.0.4.tar.gz'
            st_hash = 'e1533bc704928ba6e26a362452e6db8fd58b1f0b'
            st_loc = ['http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~apw/stress/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz',
                      'ftp://foo.bar/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz']
            tarball = self.fetch_asset(st_name, asset_hash=st_hash,
                                       locations=st_loc)
            archive.extract(tarball, self.srcdir)
    ...

  In this case, we try to download ``stress-1.0.4.tar.gz`` from the provided
  locations list (if it's not already in ``~/avocado/cache``). The hash was
  also provided, so we will verify the hash. To do so, we first look for a
  hashfile named ``stress-1.0.4.tar.gz.sha1`` in the same directory. If the
  hashfile is not present we compute the hash and create the hashfile for
  further usage.

  The resulting ``tarball`` variable content will be
  ``~/avocado/cache/stress-1.0.4.tar.gz``.
  An exception will take place if we fail to download or to verify the file.


Detailing the ``fetch_asset()`` attributes:

* ``name:`` The name used to name the fetched file. It can also contains a full
  URL, that will be used as the first location to try (after serching into the
  cache directories).
* ``asset_hash:`` (optional) The expected file hash. If missing, we skip the
  check. If provided, before computing the hash, we look for a hashfile to
  verify the asset. If the hashfile is nor present, we compute the hash and
  create the hashfile in the same cache directory for further usage.
* ``algorithm:`` (optional) Provided hash algorithm format. Defaults to sha1.
* ``locations:`` (optional) List of locations that will be used to try to fetch
  the file from. The supported schemes are ``http://``, ``https://``,
  ``ftp://`` and ``file://``. You're required to inform the full url to the
  file, including the file name. The first success will skip the next
  locations. Notice that for ``file://`` we just create a symbolic link in the
  cache directory, pointing to the file original location.
* ``expire:`` (optional) time period that the cached file will be considered
  valid. After that period, the file will be dowloaded again. The value can
  be an integer or a string containing the time and the unit. Example: '10d'
  (ten days). Valid units are ``s`` (second), ``m`` (minute), ``h`` (hour) and
  ``d`` (day).

The expected ``return`` is the asset file path or an exception.

Test Output Check and Output Record Mode
========================================

In a lot of occasions, you want to go simpler: just check if the output of a
given application matches an expected output. In order to help with this common
use case, we offer the option ``--output-check-record [mode]`` to the test runner::

      --output-check-record OUTPUT_CHECK_RECORD
                            Record output streams of your tests to reference files
                            (valid options: none (do not record output streams),
                            all (record both stdout and stderr), stdout (record
                            only stderr), stderr (record only stderr). Default:
                            none

If this option is used, it will store the stdout or stderr of the process (or
both, if you specified ``all``) being executed to reference files: ``stdout.expected``
and ``stderr.expected``. Those files will be recorded in the test data dir. The
data dir is in the same directory as the test source file, named
``[source_file_name.data]``. Let's take as an example the test ``synctest.py``. In a
fresh checkout of Avocado, you can see::

        examples/tests/synctest.py.data/stderr.expected
        examples/tests/synctest.py.data/stdout.expected

From those 2 files, only stdout.expected is non empty::

    $ cat examples/tests/synctest.py.data/stdout.expected
    PAR : waiting
    PASS : sync interrupted

The output files were originally obtained using the test runner and passing the
option --output-check-record all to the test runner::

    $ scripts/avocado run --output-check-record all synctest.py
    JOB ID    : bcd05e4fd33e068b159045652da9eb7448802be5
    JOB LOG   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2014-09-25T20.20-bcd05e4/job.log
    TESTS     : 1
     (1/1) synctest.py:SyncTest.test: PASS (2.20 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 1 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 2.20 s


After the reference files are added, the check process is transparent, in the sense
that you do not need to provide special flags to the test runner.
Now, every time the test is executed, after it is done running, it will check
if the outputs are exactly right before considering the test as PASSed. If you want to override the default
behavior and skip output check entirely, you may provide the flag ``--output-check=off`` to the test runner.

The :mod:`avocado.utils.process` APIs have a parameter ``allow_output_check`` (defaults to ``all``), so that you
can select which process outputs will go to the reference files, should you chose to record them. You may choose
``all``, for both stdout and stderr, ``stdout``, for the stdout only, ``stderr``, for only the stderr only, or ``none``,
to allow neither of them to be recorded and checked.

This process works fine also with simple tests, which are programs or shell scripts
that returns 0 (PASSed) or != 0 (FAILed). Let's consider our bogus example::

    $ cat output_record.sh
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "Hello, world!"

Let's record the output for this one::

    $ scripts/avocado run output_record.sh --output-check-record all
    JOB ID    : 25c4244dda71d0570b7f849319cd71fe1722be8b
    JOB LOG   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2014-09-25T20.49-25c4244/job.log
    TESTS     : 1
     (1/1) output_record.sh: PASS (0.01 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 1 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 0.01 s

After this is done, you'll notice that a the test data directory
appeared in the same level of our shell script, containing 2 files::

    $ ls output_record.sh.data/
    stderr.expected  stdout.expected

Let's look what's in each of them::

    $ cat output_record.sh.data/stdout.expected
    Hello, world!
    $ cat output_record.sh.data/stderr.expected
    $

Now, every time this test runs, it'll take into account the expected files that
were recorded, no need to do anything else but run the test. Let's see what
happens if we change the ``stdout.expected`` file contents to ``Hello, Avocado!``::

    $ scripts/avocado run output_record.sh
    JOB ID    : f0521e524face93019d7cb99c5765aedd933cb2e
    JOB LOG   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2014-09-25T20.52-f0521e5/job.log
    TESTS     : 1
     (1/1) output_record.sh: FAIL (0.02 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 0 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 1 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 0.02 s

Verifying the failure reason::

    $ cat $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2014-09-25T20.52-f0521e5/job.log
    20:52:38 test       L0163 INFO | START 1-output_record.sh
    20:52:38 test       L0164 DEBUG|
    20:52:38 test       L0165 DEBUG| Test instance parameters:
    20:52:38 test       L0173 DEBUG|
    20:52:38 test       L0176 DEBUG| Default parameters:
    20:52:38 test       L0180 DEBUG|
    20:52:38 test       L0181 DEBUG| Test instance params override defaults whenever available
    20:52:38 test       L0182 DEBUG|
    20:52:38 process    L0242 INFO | Running '$HOME/Code/avocado/output_record.sh'
    20:52:38 process    L0310 DEBUG| [stdout] Hello, world!
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Command: $HOME/Code/avocado/output_record.sh
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Exit status: 0
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Duration: 0.00313782691956
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Stdout:
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Hello, world!
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO |
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO | Stderr:
    20:52:38 test       L0565 INFO |
    20:52:38 test       L0060 ERROR|
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| Traceback (most recent call last):
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|   File "$HOME/Code/avocado/avocado/test.py", line 397, in check_reference_stdout
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|     self.assertEqual(expected, actual, msg)
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|   File "/usr/lib64/python2.7/unittest/case.py", line 551, in assertEqual
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|     assertion_func(first, second, msg=msg)
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|   File "/usr/lib64/python2.7/unittest/case.py", line 544, in _baseAssertEqual
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|     raise self.failureException(msg)
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| AssertionError: Actual test sdtout differs from expected one:
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| Actual:
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| Hello, world!
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| Expected:
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR| Hello, Avocado!
    20:52:38 test       L0063 ERROR|
    20:52:38 test       L0064 ERROR|
    20:52:38 test       L0529 ERROR| FAIL 1-output_record.sh -> AssertionError: Actual test sdtout differs from expected one:
    Actual:
    Hello, world!

    Expected:
    Hello, Avocado!

    20:52:38 test       L0516 INFO |

As expected, the test failed because we changed its expectations.

Test log, stdout and stderr in native Avocado modules
=====================================================

If needed, you can write directly to the expected stdout and stderr files
from the native test scope. It is important to make the distinction between
the following entities:

* The test logs
* The test expected stdout
* The test expected stderr

The first one is used for debugging and informational purposes. Additionally
writing to `self.log.warning` causes test to be marked as dirty and when
everything else goes well the test ends with WARN. This means that the test
passed but there were non-related unexpected situations described in warning
log.

You may log something into the test logs using the methods in
:mod:`avocado.Test.log` class attributes. Consider the example::

    class output_test(Test):

        def test(self):
            self.log.info('This goes to the log and it is only informational')
            self.log.warn('Oh, something unexpected, non-critical happened, '
                          'but we can continue.')
            self.log.error('Describe the error here and don't forget to raise '
                           'an exception yourself. Writing to self.log.error '
                           'won't do that for you.')
            self.log.debug('Everybody look, I had a good lunch today...')

If you need to write directly to the test stdout and stderr streams,
Avocado makes two preconfigured loggers available for that purpose,
named ``avocado.test.stdout`` and ``avocado.test.stderr``. You can use
Python's standard logging API to write to them. Example::

    import logging

    class output_test(Test):

        def test(self):
            stdout = logging.getLogger('avocado.test.stdout')
            stdout.info('Informational line that will go to stdout')
            ...
            stderr = logging.getLogger('avocado.test.stderr')
            stderr.info('Informational line that will go to stderr')

Avocado will automatically save anything a test generates on STDOUT
into a ``stdout`` file, to be found at the test results directory. The same
applies to anything a test generates on STDERR, that is, it will be saved
into a ``stderr`` file at the same location.

Additionally, when using the runner's output recording features,
namely the ``--output-check-record`` argument with values ``stdout``,
``stderr`` or ``all``, everything given to those loggers will be saved
to the files ``stdout.expected`` and ``stderr.expected`` at the test's
data directory (which is different from the job/test results directory).

Avocado Tests run on a separate process
=======================================

In order to avoid tests to mess around the environment used by the main
Avocado runner process, tests are run on a forked subprocess. This allows
for more robustness (tests are not easily able to mess/break Avocado) and
some nifty features, such as setting test timeouts.

Setting a Test Timeout
======================

Sometimes your test suite/test might get stuck forever, and this might
impact your test grid. You can account for that possibility and set up a
``timeout`` parameter for your test. The test timeout can be set through
the multiplex, as shown below.

::

    sleep_length: 5
    timeout: 3


::

    $ avocado run sleeptest.py --mux-yaml /tmp/sleeptest-example.yaml
    JOB ID     : c78464bde9072a0b5601157989a99f0ba32a288e
    JOB LOG    : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2016-11-02T11.13-c78464b/job.log
    TESTS      : 1
     (1/1) sleeptest.py:SleepTest.test: INTERRUPTED (3.04 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 0 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 0 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 1
    TESTS TIME : 3.04 s
    JOB HTML   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2016-11-02T11.13-c78464b/html/results.html


::

	$ cat $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2016-11-02T11.13-c78464b/job.log
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,133 job              L0384 INFO | Multiplex tree representation:
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,133 job              L0386 INFO |  \-- run
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,133 job              L0386 INFO |         -> sleep_length: 5
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,133 job              L0386 INFO |         -> timeout: 3
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,133 job              L0387 INFO | 
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0391 INFO | Temporary dir: /var/tmp/avocado_PqDEyC
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0392 INFO | 
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0399 INFO | Variant 1:    /run
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0402 INFO | 
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0311 INFO | Job ID: c78464bde9072a0b5601157989a99f0ba32a288e
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,134 job              L0314 INFO | 
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,345 sysinfo          L0107 DEBUG| Not logging /proc/pci (file does not exist)
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,351 sysinfo          L0105 DEBUG| Not logging /proc/slabinfo (lack of permissions)
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,355 sysinfo          L0107 DEBUG| Not logging /sys/kernel/debug/sched_features (file does not exist)
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,388 sysinfo          L0388 INFO | Commands configured by file: /etc/avocado/sysinfo/commands
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,388 sysinfo          L0399 INFO | Files configured by file: /etc/avocado/sysinfo/files
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,388 sysinfo          L0419 INFO | Profilers configured by file: /etc/avocado/sysinfo/profilers
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,388 sysinfo          L0427 INFO | Profiler disabled
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,394 multiplexer      L0166 DEBUG| PARAMS (key=timeout, path=*, default=None) => 3
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,395 test             L0216 INFO | START 1-sleeptest.py:SleepTest.test
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,396 multiplexer      L0166 DEBUG| PARAMS (key=sleep_length, path=*, default=1) => 5
	2016-11-02 11:13:01,396 sleeptest        L0022 DEBUG| Sleeping for 5.00 seconds
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,411 stacktrace       L0038 ERROR| 
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,412 stacktrace       L0041 ERROR| Reproduced traceback from: $HOME/src/avocado/avocado/core/test.py:454
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,412 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR| Traceback (most recent call last):
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,413 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR|   File "/usr/share/avocado/tests/sleeptest.py", line 23, in test
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,413 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR|     time.sleep(sleep_length)
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,413 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR|   File "$HOME/src/avocado/avocado/core/runner.py", line 293, in sigterm_handler
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,413 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR|     raise SystemExit("Test interrupted by SIGTERM")
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,414 stacktrace       L0044 ERROR| SystemExit: Test interrupted by SIGTERM
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,414 stacktrace       L0045 ERROR| 
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,414 test             L0459 DEBUG| Local variables:
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,440 test             L0462 DEBUG|  -> self <class 'sleeptest.SleepTest'>: 1-sleeptest.py:SleepTest.test
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,440 test             L0462 DEBUG|  -> sleep_length <type 'int'>: 5
	2016-11-02 11:13:04,440 test             L0592 ERROR| ERROR 1-sleeptest.py:SleepTest.test -> TestError: SystemExit('Test interrupted by SIGTERM',): Test interrupted by SIGTERM


If you pass that multiplex file to the runner multiplexer, this will register
a timeout of 3 seconds before Avocado ends the test forcefully by sending a
:class:`signal.SIGTERM` to the test, making it raise a
:class:`avocado.core.exceptions.TestTimeoutError`.


Skipping Tests
==============

Avocado offers some options for the test writers to skip a test:

Test ``skip()`` Method
----------------------

Using the ``skip()`` method available in the Test API is only allowed
inside the ``setUp()`` method. Calling ``skip()`` from inside the test is not
allowed as, by concept, you cannot skip a test after it's already initiated.

The test below::

    import avocado

    class MyTestClass(avocado.Test):

        def setUp(self):
            if self.check_condition():
                self.skip('Test skipped due to the condition.')

        def test(self):
            pass

        def check_condition(self):
            return True

Will produce the following result::

    $ avocado run test_skip_method.py 
    JOB ID     : 1bd8642400e3b6c584979504cafc4318f7a5fb65
    JOB LOG    : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2017-02-03T17.16-1bd8642/job.log
    TESTS      : 1
     (1/1) test_skip_method.py:MyTestClass.test: SKIP
    RESULTS    : PASS 0 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 1 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 0.00 s
    JOB HTML   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2017-02-03T17.16-1bd8642/html/results.html


Avocado Skip Decorators
-----------------------

Another way to skip tests is by using the Avocado skip decorators:

- ``@avocado.skip(reason)``: Skips a test.
- ``@avocado.skipIf(condition, reason)``: Skips a test if the condition is
  ``True``.
- ``@avocado.skipUnless(condition, reason)``: Skips a test if the condition is
  ``False``

Those decorators can be used with both ``setUp()`` method and/or and in the
test methods. The test below::

    import avocado

    class MyTest(avocado.Test):

        @avocado.skipIf(1 == 1, 'Skipping on True condition.')
        def test1(self):
            pass

        @avocado.skip("Don't want this test now.")
        def test2(self):
            pass

        @avocado.skipUnless(1 == 1, 'Skipping on False condition.')
        def test3(self):
            pass

Will produce the following result::

    $ avocado run  test_skip_decorators.py
    JOB ID     : 59c815f6a42269daeaf1e5b93e52269fb8a78119
    JOB LOG    : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2017-02-03T17.41-59c815f/job.log
    TESTS      : 3
     (1/3) test_skip_decorators.py:MyTest.test1: SKIP
     (2/3) test_skip_decorators.py:MyTest.test2: SKIP
     (3/3) test_skip_decorators.py:MyTest.test3: PASS (0.02 s)
    RESULTS    : PASS 1 | ERROR 0 | FAIL 0 | SKIP 2 | WARN 0 | INTERRUPT 0
    TESTS TIME : 0.03 s
    JOB HTML   : $HOME/avocado/job-results/job-2017-02-03T17.41-59c815f/html/results.html

Notice the ``test3`` was not skipped because the provided condition was
not ``False``.


Docstring Directives
====================

Some Avocado features, usually only available to instrumented tests,
depend on setting directives on the test's class docstring.  The
standard prefix used is ``:avocado:`` followed by the directive
itself, such as ``:avocado: directive``.

This is similar to docstring directives such as ``:param my_param:
description`` and shouldn't be a surprise to most Python developers.

The reason Avocado uses those docstring directives (instead of real
Python code) is that the inspection done while looking for tests does
not involve any execution of code.

Now let's follow with some docstring directives examples.


Explicitly enabling or disabling tests
--------------------------------------

If your test is a method in a class that directly inherits from
:class:`avocado.Test`, then Avocado will find it as one would expect.

Now, the need may arise for more complex tests, to use more advanced
Python features such as inheritance.  For those tests that are written
in a class not directly inherting from :class:`avocado.Test`, Avocado
may need your help.

For example, suppose that you define a new test class that inherits
from the Avocado base test class, that is, :class:`avocado.Test`, and
put it in ``mylibrary.py``::

    from avocado import Test


    class MyOwnDerivedTest(Test):
        def __init__(self, methodName='test', name=None, params=None,
                     base_logdir=None, job=None, runner_queue=None):
            super(MyOwnDerivedTest, self).__init__(methodName, name, params,
                                                   base_logdir, job,
                                                   runner_queue)
            self.log('Derived class example')


Then you implement your actual test using that derived class, in
``mytest.py``::

    import mylibrary


    class MyTest(mylibrary.MyOwnDerivedTest):

        def test1(self):
            self.log('Testing something important')

        def test2(self):
            self.log('Testing something even more important')


If you try to list the tests in that file, this is what you'll get::

    scripts/avocado list mytest.py -V
    Type       Test
    NOT_A_TEST mytest.py

    ACCESS_DENIED: 0
    BROKEN_SYMLINK: 0
    EXTERNAL: 0
    FILTERED: 0
    INSTRUMENTED: 0
    MISSING: 0
    NOT_A_TEST: 1
    SIMPLE: 0
    VT: 0

You need to give avocado a little help by adding a docstring
directive. That docstring directive is ``:avocado: enable``. It tells
the Avocado safe test detection code to consider it as an avocado
test, regardless of what the (admittedly simple) detection code thinks
of it. Let's see how that works out. Add the docstring, as you can see
the example below::

    import mylibrary


    class MyTest(mylibrary.MyOwnDerivedTest):
        """
        :avocado: enable
        """
        def test1(self):
            self.log('Testing something important')

        def test2(self):
            self.log('Testing something even more important')


Now, trying to list the tests on the ``mytest.py`` file again::

    scripts/avocado list mytest.py -V
    Type         Test
    INSTRUMENTED mytest.py:MyTest.test1
    INSTRUMENTED mytest.py:MyTest.test2

    ACCESS_DENIED: 0
    BROKEN_SYMLINK: 0
    EXTERNAL: 0
    FILTERED: 0
    INSTRUMENTED: 2
    MISSING: 0
    NOT_A_TEST: 0
    SIMPLE: 0
    VT: 0

You can also use the ``:avocado: disable`` docstring directive, that
works the opposite way: something that would be considered an Avocado
test, but we force it to not be listed as one.

.. _categorizing-tests:

Categorizing tests
------------------

Avocado allows tests to be given tags, which can be used to create
test categories.  With tags set, users can select a subset of the
tests found by the test resolver (also known as test loader).

To make this feature easier to grasp, let's work with an example: a
single Python source code file, named ``perf.py``, that contains both
disk and network performance tests::

  from avocado import Test

  class Disk(Test):

      """
      Disk performance tests

      :avocado: tags=disk,slow,superuser,unsafe
      """

      def test_device(self):
          device = self.params.get('device', default='/dev/vdb')
          self.whiteboard = measure_write_to_disk(device)


  class Network(Test):

      """
      Network performance tests

      :avocado: tags=net,fast,safe
      """

      def test_latency(self):
          self.whiteboard = measure_latency()

      def test_throughput(self):
          self.whiteboard = measure_throughput()


  class Idle(Test):

      """
      Idle tests
      """

      def test_idle(self):
          self.whiteboard = "test achieved nothing"


.. warning:: All docstring directives in Avocado require a strict
             format, that is, ``:avocado:`` followed by one or
             more spaces, and then followed by a single value **with no
             white spaces in between**.  This means that an attempt to
             write a docstring directive like ``:avocado: tags=foo,
             bar`` will be interpreted as ``:avocado: tags=foo,``.


Usually, listing and executing tests with the Avocado test runner
would reveal all three tests::

  $ avocado list perf.py
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Disk.test_device
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_latency
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_throughput
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Idle.test_idle

If you want to list or run only the network based tests, you can do so
by requesting only tests that are tagged with ``net``::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=net
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_latency
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_throughput

Now, suppose you're not in an environment where you're confortable
running a test that will write to your raw disk devices (such as your
development workstation).  You know that some tests are tagged
with ``safe`` while others are tagged with ``unsafe``.  To only
select the "safe" tests you can run::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=safe
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_latency
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_throughput

But you could also say that you do **not** want the "unsafe" tests
(note the *minus* sign before the tag)::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=-unsafe
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_latency
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_throughput


.. tip:: The ``-`` sign may cause issues with some shells.  One know
   error condition is to use spaces between ``--filter-by-tags`` and
   the negated tag, that is, ``--filter-by-tags -unsafe`` will most
   likely not work.  To be on the safe side, use
   ``--filter-by-tags=-tag``.


If you require tests to be tagged with **multiple** tags, just add
them separate by commas.  Example::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=disk,slow,superuser,unsafe
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Disk.test_device

If no test contains all tags given on a single `--filter-by-tags`
parameter, no test will be included::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=disk,slow,superuser,safe | wc -l
  0

Multiple `--filter-by-tags`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While multiple tags in a single option will require tests with all the
given tags (effectively a logical AND operation), it's also possible
to use multiple ``--filter-by-tags`` (effectively a logical OR
operation).

For instance To include all tests that have the `disk` tag and all
tests that have the `net` tag, you can run::

  $ avocado list perf.py --filter-by-tags=disk --filter-by-tags=net
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Disk.test_device
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_latency
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Network.test_throughput

Including tests without tags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The normal behavior when using `--filter-by-tags` is to require the
given tags on all tests.  In some situations, though, it may be
desirable to include tests that have no tags set.

For instance, you may want to include tests of certain types that do
not have support for tags (such as SIMPLE tests) or tests that have
not (yet) received tags.  Consider this command::

  $ avocado list perf.py /bin/true --filter-by-tags=disk
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Disk.test_device

Since it requires the `disk` tag, only one test was returned.  By
using the `--filter-by-tags-include-empty` option, you can force the
inclusion of tests without tags::

  $ avocado list perf.py /bin/true --filter-by-tags=disk --filter-by-tags-include-empty
  SIMPLE       /bin/true
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Idle.test_idle
  INSTRUMENTED perf.py:Disk.test_device

Python :mod:`unittest` Compatibility Limitations And Caveats
============================================================

When executing tests, Avocado uses different techniques than most
other Python unittest runners.  This brings some compatibility
limitations that Avocado users should be aware.

Execution Model
---------------

One of the main differences is a consequence of the Avocado design
decision that tests should be self contained and isolated from other
tests.  Additionally, the Avocado test runner runs each test in a
separate process.

If you have a unittest class with many test methods and run them
using most test runners, you'll find that all test methods run under
the same process.  To check that behavior you could add to your
:meth:`setUp <unittest.TestCase.setUp>` method::

   def setUp(self):
       print("PID: %s", os.getpid())

If you run the same test under Avocado, you'll find that each test
is run on a separate process.

Class Level :meth:`setUp <unittest.TestCase.setUpClass>` and :meth:`tearDown <unittest.TestCase.tearDownClass>`
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because of Avocado's test execution model (each test is run on a
separate process), it doesn't make sense to support unittest's
:meth:`unittest.TestCase.setUpClass` and
:meth:`unittest.TestCase.tearDownClass`.  Test classes are freshly
instantiated for each test, so it's pointless to run code in those
methods, since they're supposed to keep class state between tests.

The ``setUp`` method is the only place in avocado where you are allowed to
call the ``skip`` method, given that, if a test started to be executed, by
definition it can't be skipped anymore. Avocado will do its best to enforce
this boundary, so that if you use ``skip`` outside ``setUp``, the test upon
execution will be marked with the ``ERROR`` status, and the error message
will instruct you to fix your test's code.

If you require a common setup to a number of tests, the current
recommended approach is to to write regular :meth:`setUp
<unittest.TestCase.setUp>` and :meth:`tearDown
<unittest.TestCase.tearDown>` code that checks if a given state was
already set.  One example for such a test that requires a binary
installed by a package::

  from avocado import Test

  from avocado.utils import software_manager
  from avocado.utils import path as utils_path
  from avocado.utils import process


  class BinSleep(Test):

      """
      Sleeps using the /bin/sleep binary
      """
      def setUp(self):
          self.sleep = None
          try:
              self.sleep = utils_path.find_command('sleep')
          except utils_path.CmdNotFoundError:
              software_manager.install_distro_packages({'fedora': ['coreutils']})
              self.sleep = utils_path.find_command('sleep')

      def test(self):
          process.run("%s 1" % self.sleep)

If your test setup is some kind of action that will last accross
processes, like the installation of a software package given in the
previous example, you're pretty much covered here.

If you need to keep other type of data a class across test
executions, you'll have to resort to saving and restoring the data
from an outside source (say a "pickle" file).  Finding and using a
reliable and safe location for saving such data is currently not in
the Avocado supported use cases.

Environment Variables for Simple Tests
======================================

Avocado exports Avocado variables and multiplexed variables as BASH environment
to the running test. Those variables are interesting to simple tests, because
they can not make use of Avocado API directly with Python, like the native
tests can do and also they can modify the test parameters.

Here are the current variables that Avocado exports to the tests:

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Environemnt Variable        | Meaning                               | Example                                                                                             |
+=============================+=======================================+=====================================================================================================+
| AVOCADO_VERSION             | Version of Avocado test runner        | 0.12.0                                                                                              |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_BASEDIR        | Base directory of Avocado tests       | $HOME/Downloads/avocado-source/avocado                                                              |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_DATADIR        | Data directory for the test           | $AVOCADO_TEST_BASEDIR/my_test.sh.data                                                               |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_WORKDIR        | Work directory for the test           | /var/tmp/avocado_Bjr_rd/my_test.sh                                                                  |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_SRCDIR         | Source directory for the test         | /var/tmp/avocado_Bjr_rd/my-test.sh/src                                                              |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TESTS_COMMON_TMPDIR | Temporary directory created by the    | /var/tmp/avocado_XhEdo/                                                                             |
|                             | `teststmpdir` plugin. The directory   |                                                                                                     |
|                             | is persistent throughout the tests    |                                                                                                     |
|                             | in the same Job                       |                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_LOGDIR         | Log directory for the test            | $HOME/logs/job-results/job-2014-09-16T14.38-ac332e6/test-results/$HOME/my_test.sh.1                 |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_LOGFILE        | Log file for the test                 | $HOME/logs/job-results/job-2014-09-16T14.38-ac332e6/test-results/$HOME/my_test.sh.1/debug.log       |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_OUTPUTDIR      | Output directory for the test         | $HOME/logs/job-results/job-2014-09-16T14.38-ac332e6/test-results/$HOME/my_test.sh.1/data            |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| AVOCADO_TEST_SYSINFODIR     | The system information directory      | $HOME/logs/job-results/job-2014-09-16T14.38-ac332e6/test-results/$HOME/my_test.sh.1/sysinfo         |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| *                           | All variables from --mux-yaml         | TIMEOUT=60; IO_WORKERS=10; VM_BYTES=512M; ...                                                       |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Simple Tests BASH extensions
============================

To enhance simple tests one can use supported set of libraries we created. The
only requirement is to use::

    PATH=$(avocado "exec-path"):$PATH

which injects path to Avocado utils into shell PATH. Take a look into
``avocado exec-path`` to see list of available functions and take a look at
``examples/tests/simplewarning.sh`` for inspiration.


Wrap Up
=======

We recommend you take a look at the example tests present in the
``examples/tests`` directory, that contains a few samples to take some
inspiration from. That directory, besides containing examples, is also used by
the Avocado self test suite to do functional testing of Avocado itself.

It is also recommended that you take a look at the :ref:`api-reference`.
for more possibilities.

.. [#f1] sleeptest is a functional test for Avocado. It's "old" because we
	 also have had such a test for `Autotest`_ for a long time.

.. _Autotest: http://autotest.github.io
.. _Class Names: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _PEP8 Function Names: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#function-names
