========
36.0 LTS
========

This is a very proud announcement: Avocado release 36.0lts, our very
first "Long Term Stability" release, is now out!

LTS in a nutshell
-----------------

This release marks the beginning of a special cycle that will last for
18 months. Avocado usage in production environments should favor the
use of this LTS release, instead of non-LTS releases.

Bug fixes will be provided on the "36lts"[1] branch until, at least,
September 2017.  Minor releases, such as "36.1lts", "36.2lts" an so
on, will be announced from time to time, incorporating those stability
related improvements.

Keep in mind that no new feature will be added.  For more information,
please read the "Avocado Long Term Stability" RFC[2].

Changes from 35.0
-----------------

As mentioned in the release notes for the previous release (35.0),
only bug fixes and other stability related changes would be added to
what is now 36.0lts.  For the complete list of changes, please check
the GIT repo change log[3].

Install avocado
---------------

The Avocado LTS packages are available on a separate repository, named
"avocado-lts".  These repositories are available for Fedora 22, Fedora
23, EPEL 6 and EPEL 7.

Updated ".repo" files are available on the usual locations:

* https://repos-avocadoproject.rhcloud.com/static/avocado-fedora.repo
* https://repos-avocadoproject.rhcloud.com/static/avocado-el.repo

Those repo files now contain definitions for both the "LTS" and
regular repositories.  Users interested in the LTS packages, should
disable the regular repositories and enable the "avocado-lts" repo.

Instructions are available in our documentation on how to install
either with packages or from source[4].

Happy hacking and testing!

----

| [1] https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/tree/36lts
| [2] https://www.redhat.com/archives/avocado-devel/2016-April/msg00038.html
| [3] https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/35.0...36.0lts
| [4] http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/36lts/GetStartedGuide.html#installing-avocado
