==============================
37.0 Trabant vs. South America
==============================

This is another proud announcement: Avocado release 37.0, aka "Trabant
vs. South America", is now out!

This release is yet another collection of bug fixes and some new
features.  Along with the same changes that made the 36.0lts
release[1], this brings the following additional changes:

* TAP[2] version 12 support, bringing better integration with other
  test tools that accept this streaming format as input.

* Added niceties on Avocado's utility libraries "build" and "kernel",
  such as automatic parallelism and resource caching.  It makes tests
  such as "linuxbuild.py" (and your similar tests) run up to 10 times
  faster.

* Fixed an issue where Avocado could leave processes behind after the
  test was finished.

* Fixed a bug where the configuration for tests data directory would
  be ignored.

* Fixed a bug where SIMPLE tests would not properly exit with WARN
  status.

For a complete list of changes please check the Avocado changelog[3].

For Avocado-VT, please check the full Avocado-VT changelog[4].

Happy hacking and testing!

----

| [1] https://www.redhat.com/archives/avocado-devel/2016-May/msg00025.html
| [2] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_Anything_Protocol
| [3] https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/35.0...37.0
| [4] https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado-vt/compare/35.0...37.0
| [5] http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/37.0/GetStartedGuide.html#installing-avocado
| Sprint Theme: https://trello.com/c/XbIUqU1Y/673-sprint-theme
