==============
38.0 Love, Ken
==============

You guessed it right: this is another Avocado release announcement:
release 38.0, aka "Love, Ken", is now out!

Another development cycle has just finished, and our community will
receive this new release containing a nice assortment of bug fixes and
new features.

* The download of assets in tests now allow for an expiration time.
  This means that tests that need to download any kind of external
  asset, say a tarball, can now automatically benefit from the
  download cache, but can also keep receiving new versions
  automatically.

  Suppose your asset uses an asset named `myproject-daily.tar.bz2`,
  and that your test runs 50 times a day.  By setting the expire time
  to `1d` (1 day), your test will benefit from cache on most runs, but
  will still fetch the new version when the 24 hours from the
  first download have passed.

  For more information, please check out the
  `documentation <http://avocado-framework.readthedocs.io/en/38.0/WritingTests.html>`_
  on the `expire` parameter to the `fetch_asset()` method.

* Environment variables can be propagated into tests running on remote
  systems. It's a known fact that one way to influence application behavior,
  including test, is to set environment variables. A command line such as::

    $ MYAPP_DEBUG=1 avocado run myapp_test.py

  Will work as expected on a local system.  But Avocado also allows
  running tests on remote machines, and up until now, it has been
  lacking a way to propagate environment variables to the remote
  system.

  Now, you can use::

    $ MYAPP_DEBUG=1 avocado run --env-keep MYAPP_DEBUG \
      --remote-host test-machine myapp_test.py

* The plugin interfaces have been moved into the
  `avocado.core.plugin_interfaces` module.  This means that plugin
  writers now have to import the interface definitions this namespace,
  example::

    ...
    from avocado.core.plugin_interfaces import CLICmd

    class MyCommand(CLICmd):
    ...

  This is a way to keep ourselves honest, and say that there's no
  difference from plugin interfaces to Avocado's core implementation,
  that is, they may change at will.  For greater stability, one should
  be tracking the LTS releases.

  Also, it effectively makes all plugins the same, whether they're
  implemented and shipped as part of Avocado, or as part of external
  projects.

* A contrib script for running kvm-unit-tests.  As some people are
  aware, Avocado has indeed a close relation to virtualization
  testing.  Avocado-VT is one obvious example, but there are other
  virtualization related test suites can Avocado can run.

  This release adds a contrib script that will fetch, download,
  compile and run kvm-unit-tests using Avocado's external runner
  feature.  This gives results in a better granularity than the
  support that exists in Avocado-VT, which gives only a single
  PASS/FAIL for the entire test suite execution.

For more information, please check out the `Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/37.0...38.0>`_.

Avocado-VT
----------

Also, while we focused on Avocado, let's also not forget that
Avocado-VT maintains it's own fast pace of incoming niceties.

* s390 support: Avocado-VT is breaking into new grounds, and now has
  support for the s390 architecture.  Fedora 23 for s390 has been added
  as a valid guest OS, and s390-virtio has been added as a new machine
  type.

* Avocado-VT is now more resilient against failures to persist its
  environment file, and will only give warnings instead of errors when
  it fails to save it.

* An improved implementation of the "job lock" plugin, which prevents
  multiple Avocado jobs with VT tests to run simultaneously.  Since
  there's no finer grained resource locking in Avocado-VT, this is a
  global lock that will prevent issues such as image corruption when
  two jobs are run at the same time.

  This new implementation will now check if existing lock files are
  stale, that is, they are leftovers from previous run.  If the
  processes associated with these files are not present, the stale
  lock files are deleted, removing the need to clean them up manually.
  It also outputs better debugging information when failures to
  acquire lock.

The complete list of changes to Avocado-VT are available on
`Avocado-VT changelog <https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado-vt/compare/37.0...38.0>`_.

Miscellaneous
-------------

While not officially part of this release, this development cycle saw
the introduction of new tests on our
`avocado-misc-tests <https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado-misc-tests>`_.
Go check it out!

Finally, since Avocado and Avocado-VT are not newly born anymore, we
decided to update information mentioning KVM-Autotest, virt-test on so
on around the web. This will hopefully redirect new users to the Avocado
community and avoid confusion.

Happy hacking and testing!

----

Sprint Theme: https://trello.com/c/Y6IIFXBS/732-sprint-theme
