======================
39.0 The Hateful Eight
======================

The Avocado team is proud to present another incremental release:
version 39.0, aka, "The Hateful Eight", is now available!

The major changes introduced on this version are listed below.

* Support for running tests in Docker container.  Now, in addition to
  running tests on a (libvirt based) Virtual Machine or on a remote host,
  you can now run tests in transient Docker containers.  The usage is as
  simple as::

    $ avocado run mytests.py --docker ldoktor/fedora-avocado

  The container will be started, using ``ldoktor/fedora-avocado`` as
  the image.  This image contains a Fedora based system with Avocado
  already installed, and it's provided at the official Docker hub.

* Introduction of the "Fail Fast" feature.

  By running a job with the ``--failfast`` flag, the job will be
  interrupted after the very first test failure.  If your job only
  makes sense if it's a complete PASS, this feature can save you a lot
  of time.

* Avocado supports replaying previous jobs, selected by using their
  Job IDs.  Now, it's also possible to use the special keyword
  ``latest``, which will cause Avocado to rerun the very last job.

* Python's standard signal handling is restored for SIGPIPE, and thus
  for all tests running on Avocado.

  In previous releases, Avocado introduced a change that set the
  default handler to SIGPIPE, which caused the application to be
  terminated.  This seemed to be the right approach when testing how
  the Avocado app would behave on broken pipes on the command line,
  but it introduced side effects to a lot of Python code.  Instead of
  exceptions, the affected Python code would receive the signal themselves.

  This is now reverted to the Python standard, and the signal behavior
  of Python based tests running on Avocado should not surprise anyone.

* The project release notes are now part of the official
  documentation.  That means that users can quickly find when a given
  change was introduced.

Together with those changes listed, a total of 38 changes made into
this release.  For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/38.0...39.0>`_.

Sprint Theme
============

After so much love that we had on the previous version, let's twist
things a bit with an antagonist title.  Info on this pretty good movie
by Tarantino can be found at:

 http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3460252/?ref_=nm_flmg_wr_2

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6_UI1GzaWv0

The story line:

In the dead of a Wyoming winter, a bounty hunter and his prisoner
find shelter in a cabin currently inhabited by a collection of
nefarious characters.

Release Meeting
===============

The Avocado release meetings are now open to the community via
Hangouts on Air.  The meetings are recorded and made available on the
`Avocado Test Framework YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RVZ_HFTbEztDM7wNY4NfA>`_.

For this release, you can watch the meeting on `this link
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GotEH7SmHSw>`_.
