==============
41.0 Outlander
==============

The Avocado team is proud to present another release:
Avocado version 41.0, aka, "Outlander", is now available!

The major changes introduced on this version are listed below,
roughly categorized into major topics and intended audience:

Users/Test Writers
==================

 * Multiplex: remove the `-s` (system-wide) shortcut to avoid
   confusion with `silent` from main apps.

 * New :meth:`avocado.utils.linux_modules.check_kernel_config()`
   method, with which users can check if a kernel configuration is not
   set, a module or built-in.

 * Show link to file which failed to be processed by sysinfo.

 * New `path` key type for settings that auto-expand tilde notation,
   that is, when using :meth:`avocado.core.settings.Settings.get_value`
   you can get this special value treatment.

 * The automatic VM IP detection that kicks in when one uses
   `--vm-domain` without a matching `--vm-hostname`, now uses a more
   reliable method (libvirt/qemu-gust-agent query).  On the other
   hand, the QEMU guest agent is now required if you intend to omit
   the VM IP/hostname.

 * Warn users when sysinfo configuration files are not present, and
   consequently no sysinfo is going to be collected.

 * Set `LC_ALL=C` by default on sysinfo collection to simplify
   `avocado diff` comparison between different machines.  It can be
   tweaked in the config file (`locale` option under
   `sysinfo.collect`).

 * Remove deprecated option `--multiplex-files`.

 * List result plugins (JSON, XUnit, HTML) in `avocado plugins`
   command output.

Documentation
=============

 * Mention to the community maintained repositories.

 * Add GIT workflow to the contribution guide.

Developers
==========

 * New `make check-long` target to run long tests. For example, the
   new `FileLockTest`.

 * New `make variables` target to display Makefile variables.

 * Plugins: add optional plugins directory `optional_plugins`. This
   also adds all directories to be found under `optional_plugins` to
   the list of candidate plugins when running `make clean` or `make
   link`.

Bugfixes
========

 * Fix `undefined name` error :mod:`avocado.core.remote.runner`.

 * Ignore `\r` when checking for avocado in remote executions.

 * Skip file if `UnicodeDecodeError` is raised when collecting
   sysinfo.

 * Sysinfo: respect package collection on/off configuration.

 * Use `-y` in `lvcreate` to ignore warnings
   :mod:`avocado.utils.lv_utils`.

 * Fix crash in :mod:`avocado.core.tree` when printing non-string
   values.

 * `setup.py`: fix the virtualenv detection so readthedocs.org can
   properly probe Avocado's version.

Internal improvements
=====================

 * Cleanup runner->multiplexer API

 * Replay re-factoring, renamed `avocado.core.replay` to
   :mod:`avocado.core.jobdata`.

 * Partition utility class defaults to ext2. We documented that and
   reinforced in the accompanying unittests.

 * Unittests for :mod:`avocado.utils.partition` has now more specific
   checks for the conditions necessary to run the Partition tests
   (sudo, mkfs.ext2 binary).

 * Several Makefile improvements.

For more information, please check out the complete
`Avocado changelog
<https://github.com/avocado-framework/avocado/compare/40.0...41.0>`_.

Release Meeting
===============

The Avocado release meetings are now open to the community via
Hangouts on Air.  The meetings are recorded and made available on the
`Avocado Test Framework YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RVZ_HFTbEztDM7wNY4NfA>`_.

For this release, you can watch the meeting on `this link
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGNiOk8UrMs>`_.

----

| Sprint theme: https://trello.com/c/5oShOR1D/812-sprint-theme-outlander
