========
52.0 LTS
========

The Avocado team is proud to present another release: Avocado version
52.0, the second Avocado LTS version.

What's new?
===========

When compared to the last LTS (v36), the main features introduced by
this versions are:

- TAP[2] version 12 support.
- The download of assets in tests now allow for an expiration time.
- Environment variables can be propagated into tests running on remote
  systems.
- The plugin interfaces have been moved into the
  ``avocado.core.plugin_interfaces`` module.
- Support for running tests in a Docker container.
- Introduction of the "Fail Fast" feature (``--failfast on`` option) to
  the ``run`` command, which interrupts the Job on a first test failure.
- Special keyword ``latest`` for replaying previous jobs.
- Support to replay a Job by path (in addition to the Job ID method and
  the ``latest`` keyword).
- The introduction of a tool that generated a diff-like report of two
  jobs.
- The introduction of a ``rr`` based wrapper.
- The automatic VM IP detection that kicks in when one uses
  ``--vm-domain`` without a matching ``--vm-hostname``, now uses a more
  reliable method (libvirt/qemu-gust-agent query).
- Set ``LC_ALL=C`` by default on sysinfo collection to simplify avocado
  diff comparison between different machines.
- Result plugins system is now pluggable and the results plugins (JSON,
  XUnit, HTML) were turned into stevedore plugins. They are now listed
  in the ``avocado plugins`` command.
- Multiplexer was replaced with Varianter plugging system with defined
  API to register plugins that generate test variants.
- Old ``--multiplex`` argument, which used to turn yaml files into
  variants, is now handled by an optional plugin called ``yaml_to_mux``
  and the ``--multiplex`` option is being deprecated in favour of
  the ``--mux-yaml`` option, which behaves the same way.
- It’s now possible to disable plugins by using the configuration file.
- Better error handling of the virtual machine plugin (``--vm-domain``
  and related options).
- When discovering tests on a directory, the result now is a properly
  alphabetically ordered list of tests.
- Plugins can now be setup in Avocado configuration file to run at a
  specific order.
- Support for filtering tests by user supplied "tags".
- Users can now see the tags set on `INSTRUMENTED` test when listing
  tests with the `-V` (verbose) option.
- Users can now choose to keep the complete set of files, including
  temporary ones, created during an Avocado job run by using the
  ``--keep-tmp`` option (e.g. to keep those files for ``rr``).
- Tests running with the external runner (``--external-runner``) feature
  will now have access to the extended behavior for SIMPLE tests, such
  as being able to exit a test with the WARNING status.
- Encoding support was improved and now Avocado should safely treat
  localized test-names.
- Test writers now have access to a test temporary directory that will
  last not only for the duration of the test, but for the duration of
  the whole job execution to allow sharing state/exchanging data between
  tests.
- When not disabled, "results.tap" is by default generated in results
  directory.
- Avocado is now available on Fedora standard repository. The package
  name is ``python2-avocado``. The optional plugins and examples
  packages are also available. Run ``dnf search avocado`` to list them
  all.
- Optional plugins and examples packages are also Avocado on PyPI.
- Avocado test writers can now use a family of decorators, namely
  ``avocado.skip()``, ``avocado.skipIf()`` and ``avocado.skipUnless()``
  to skip the execution of tests.
- ``self.skip()`` is under deprecation process and users should use the
  skip decorators instead.
- Sysinfo collection based on command execution now allows a timeout to
  be set.
- The non-local runner plugins, the html plugin and the yaml_to_mux
  plugin are now distributed in separate packages.
- Users sending SIGTERM to Avocado can now expect it to be properly handled.
- Support for new type of test status, ``CANCEL``, and of course the
  mechanisms to set a test with this status.
- ``avocado.TestFail``, ``avocado.TestError`` and ``avocado.TestCancel``
  are now public Avocado Test APIs, available from the main avocado
  namespace.
- Introduction of the robot plugin, which allows Robot Framework tests
  to be listed and executed natively within Avocado.
- A brand new ResultsDB optional plugin.
- Listing of supported loaders (``--loaders \?``) was refined.
- Variant-IDs generated by yaml_to_mux plugin now include leaf node
  names to make them more meaningful, making easier to skim through
  the results.
- `yaml_to_mux` now supports internal filters defined inside the YAML
  file expanding the filtering capabilities even further.
- Avocado now supports resuming jobs that were interrupted.
- The HTML report now presents the test ID and variant ID in separate
  columns, allowing users to also sort and filter results based on those
  specific fields.
- The HTML report will now show the test parameters used in a test when
  the user hovers the cursor over the test name.
- Avocado now reports the total job execution time on the UI, instead of
  just the tests execution time.
- The Avocado multiplex command has been renamed to variants.
- Loaders were tweaked to provide more info on ``avocado list -V``
  especially when they don't recognize the reference.
- Users can use ``--ignore-missing-references on`` to run a job with
  undiscovered test references
- Users can now choose in which order the job will execute tests (from
  its suite) and variants. The two available options are
  ``--execution-order=variants-per-test`` (default) or
  ``--execution-order=tests-per-variant``.
- Test methods can be recursively discovered from parent classes by upon
  the ``:avocado: recursive`` docstring directive.

Those are the main, but not all, features that are available to users.
Besides that, we had several improvements in our ``utils`` libraries
that are important for test writers, some of them are listed below:

- ``time_to_seconds``, ``geometric_mean`` and ``compare_matrices`` were
  added in ``avocado.utils.data_structures``.
- ``avocado.utils.distro`` was refined.
- ``avocado.utils.{filelock,lv_utils,multipath,partition,pci}`` were\
  introduced.
- ``avocado.utils.memory`` contains several new methods.
- New ``avocado.utils.process.SubProcess.get_pid()`` method.
- ``sudo`` support in ``avocado.utils.process`` was improved
- The ``avocado.utils.process`` library makes it possible to ignore
  spawned background processes that never finish.
- New ``avocado.utils.linux_modules.check_kernel_config()``.
- Users of the ``avocado.utils.process`` module will now be able to access
  the process ID in the ``avocado.utils.process.CmdResult``.
- Improved ``avocado.utils.iso9660`` with a more complete standard API
  across all back-end implementations.
- Improved ``avocado.utils.build.make()``, which will now return the make
  process exit status code.
- The ``avocado.Test`` class now better exports (and protects) the core
  class attributes members (such as params and runner_queue).
- ``avocado.utils.linux_modules`` functions now returns module name, size,
  submodules if present, filename, version, number of modules using it,
  list of modules it is dependent on and finally a list of params.

It is also worth mentioning:

- Improved documentation, with new sections to Release Notes and
  Optional Plugins, very improved Contribution and Community Guide. New
  content and new examples everywhere.
- The avocado-framework-tests GitHub organization was founded to
  encourage companies to share Avocado tests.
- Bugs were always handled as high priority and every single version was
  delivered with all the reported bugs properly fixed.

And here are some statistics. When compared to the last LTS, we had:

- 1187 commits (and counting).
- 15 new versions.
- 4811 more lines of Python code (+27,42%).
- 1800 more lines of code comment (+24,67%).
- 31 more Python files (+16,48%).
- 69 closed GitHub issues.
- 34 contributors from at least 12 different companies, 26 of them
  contributing for the fist time to the project.
